<INSTRUCTION> What did the quick brown fox do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Tom smiles. He is happy. He hugs Lily back. "Thank you, Lily. You are a good friend. You win too!"

Suddenly, Timmy saw something strange. He stopped playing and stared at the water. "What's wrong?" Sally asked. "Look!" Timmy said, pointing to the water. "It's a flood!" Sally saw that the water was rising very fast. They needed to get out of the river quickly.

The faucet started to feel hurt and sad. He said to Lily, "Stop please! That's too icy for me!"

Timmy thought about it and decided to let Bobby play with the toy car too. They both had fun playing together and learned that sharing is important and that fighting is not the answer.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She had a loyal dog named Max. One day, Lily was drinking water from a glass when she accidentally knocked it over. Max saw what happened and leaned over to lick up the water before it spilled everywhere. 

The pair quickly became friends and they talked and laughed until the sun went down. Annie had an amazing day in the wood with her new friend. The two said goodbye and Annie happily skipped home.
Once upon a time there was a very high tree. Inside the tree lived a little white kitten. The kitten was sad and lonely and wanted to find a friend.

The end.
Jenna was 3 years old. She liked to run around and have fun. Every day when she woke up she wanted to play in her room.

Lily called her friend Tom, a little duck, and said, "Hey Tom, let's pass the big rock to each other!" Tom agreed and they started to play with the rock. They were having lots of fun, but they didn't know that the rock was hiding a secret.

<INSTRUCTION> What did Lily call her friend Tom? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Lily called her friend Tom, a little duck, and said, "Hey Tom, let's pass the big rock to each other!" </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Finally, Timmy's milk arrived and he drank it all up. He was happy and no longer impatient. He said, "Thank you, mommy. I love you." His mommy replied, "You're welcome, Timmy. I love you too."
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Timmy who loved to play on the beach. He would build sandcastles and chase the waves. One day, he found a shiny rock and put it in his pocket. He thought it was cool.

"Hi there, Andy!" said Lily. "What are you up to today?" 

But when he was sleeping, a big grouchy bear came by and saw the billboard. The bear was angry because someone had stolen it and he wanted it back.

Tweety saw that Jerry was sad and asked him what was wrong. Jerry said he wanted to see the world from up high like Tweety, but he was too scared. Tweety said, "Don't worry, I'll help you. I'll fly you up to my nest so you can see the world from up high."

"No, Tom, no. That is not funny. That is bad. You have to wash your doll and put on his right clothes," Lily says and gets angry.

The little girl was sad that the music had stopped. She nodded at the trumpet and said, "I'm sorry. I hope the trumpet will start playing again soon". As if it understood her, the trumpet began to make its beautiful music once again. The little girl's face lit up and she happily happily nodded in time with the music.
Once there was a little girl named Lola who loved to play pretend. One day, she was feeling very excited, because she received an envelope in the mail. 

Tommy waited until he saw the butterfly again. It flew back over to a nearby tree. Tommy smiled. The butterfly had returned. He said, "It came back!"

The dragon was so surprised. He flew away, never to be seen again.

<INSTRUCTION> Why did Tom wait? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Tommy waited until he saw the butterfly again. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

He saw a big block that Anna had left on the floor. He thought maybe she would not notice if he took it. He reached for it and put it on his pile.

Her mom said, “They’re here to keep us safe. They’re like helpers who wear uniform.� 

They decide to play pretend. Anna calls her mom and dad. Ben drives his car. They have fun. They are happy.
Tim and Jen are playing with bricks in the yard. They like to build towers and houses with the bricks. The bricks are gray and hard.

Her brother was very proud of her, but he wished he could do the same. He asked, “Can I win too?�

The driver said, "Sure. Come on. I'll show you." He lifted Tommy and put him in the truck. He showed him the seats and the buttons and the radio. He showed him the hose and the ladder and the axe. He said, "This is what we use to fight fires. We are firemen. We help people when they are in trouble."

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan want to do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Joan still wanted to play. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

"No, it is mine! I saw it first!" Ben says.

Lily's mom heard her cries and came running. She saw the map on the ground and realized Lily had wandered too far from home. They rushed to the hospital, but it was too late. Lily had lost too much blood and passed away. From that day on, Lily's mom always kept a close eye on her and never let her wander too far away again.
Once upon a time, there was a little fish who loved to swim in the big ocean. One day, the little fish saw a big net in the water. The fish was scared and didn't know what to do. He swam away fast, but the net followed him.

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan's mother say to her? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Her mother said, Joan, you must take a nap and prevent getting too hot. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

"Wow!", she said awely. "Where did it come from?"

Tommy and Mummy laughed, they were so happy. They soon were snuggled up on the sofa with a blanket, enjoying a cozy cup of hot chocolate. They were so happy that everyone stayed away from the rain.
Once upon a time, there was a small panda who did not feel like he belonged anywhere. 
"Where should I go?" he asked. 
He looked around, but he couldn't find anyone to help him. Just then, an elephant spotted the panda and said “Come with me!�

"You have a bad cold, Lily. You need to drink a lot of water and rest. And you need to take this medicine. It will help you fight the germs that make you sick," he said. He took out a bottle and a spoon from his bag. He poured some liquid on the spoon and gave it to Lily.

Nemo was so happy that his friend forgave him. He promised to never take anything without asking first. From that day on, Nemo and his friend played together happily in the reef.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily who loved to play outside. One day, she went to the park with her mom. While she was playing, Lily noticed a shiny lock on the gate. She asked her mom what it was for, and her mom explained that it kept the gate closed so no one could go in or out.

Suddenly there were all sorts of games to play with the chimney. Kids had a lot of fun!

The little bird said, "Help! I can't fly. I screamed because I'm scared." Kitty wanted to help the little bird. She told the bird, "Don't worry, I'll help you."

<INSTRUCTION> What did the little bird say? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> The little bird said, "Help! I can't fly. I screamed because I'm scared." </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

One day, a brave little girl came to the factory. She was only three years old, but she offered to help out. The workers were so happy.

Suddenly, she heard footsteps on the stairs. It was her mom. She was coming to check on her. Lila was scared. She knew she was not supposed to be in the chamber. She quickly took off the dress, the hat, and the necklace, and put them back in the chest. She hid behind the chest and hoped her mom would not see her.

They asked their mother if they could play with the blocks. She said they could. She said they could share the blocks and build something together. She said they could make something that their grandfather would like. She said they could make something that would show their love for each other.

She walked towards the cage. She reached out her hand. She touched the leopard's tail. The leopard woke up. It opened its eyes. It saw Lily. It was angry. It roared loud.

Alice was worried. She looked up at her mom with big eyes, asking, "What's wrong?"

Uncle smiled and said, "You're right! That's why I like showing it to people."

He quickly ran up and started to scatter the coins.

Finally, it was getting late and dark so the little boy had to go to bed. In the morning, he searched again, but his dad was still gone and the safe was still untied.

<INSTRUCTION> What did the leopard do when it opened its eyes? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> It saw Lily. It was angry. It roared loud. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

"Guess what, kids?" he said. "I have a surprise for you!"

"Mmm, this is yummy!" Mia says.

She asked her friend Tom, "Did you see my bracelet?" Tom said, "No, but I can help you find it." They looked everywhere for the bracelet, but they could not find it. Lucy and Tom were tired, but they did not give up.

The generous rabbit hopped alongside the little girl, showing her how to speed. The little girl was delighted! She followed the rabbit's instructions and soon she was faster than ever before. 

Her Mommy hugged her tight and said, "You can still have sausages sometimes. Just remind me next time and I'll get you some from the store."

One day, a little girl named Sue came to Tom for help. Sue wanted to learn how to whistle too. Tom said, "I will teach you how to whistle, Sue. It is easy and fun!"

"Yes, it is!" Ben said. "We are good at making castles!"

But after a while his mom convinced him to go home. The little boy was sad but his mom made him a promise that if he was successful in being a good boy, then they could go to the park the next day. The little boy was so excited about the news that he forgot about his sore knee.
Once upon a time there was a little bunny named Ben. Ben loved to hop around and explore the world. One day Ben decided to go on an adventure and he hopped off into the sunny meadow. 

They all started laughing and waited for the man to wake up. When he did, the man worked hard to take care of the tree and soon the smoke was all gone. 

One day, the bird wanted to fly high in the sky. So, the bird took the basket and started to fly. The bird went up and up.

<INSTRUCTION> What did do when it wanted to fly? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> The bird took the basket and started to fly. The bird went up and up. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

But when she tried to grab the flag, her mom told her she couldn't have it. Lily was sad and didn't understand why she couldn't have the pretty flag. Her mom explained that it was important and famous because it represented their country. Lily still wanted the flag, but she knew she had to listen to her mom and refuse to take it. She went back to playing in the grass, but she couldn't stop thinking about the pretty flag.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She had a furry cat named Fluffy. Fluffy was very hairy and loved to play with Lily all day long.

"Me too. Maybe we can come back another day and watch them from far away," Ben says.

Everyone in the forest had a big piece of the large cake, it was delicious! The bear was so happy that he had wrapped the present.
Once upon a time, there were two friends, and their names were Max and Mia. They liked to play together every day. Today, Mia wanted to play with her football.

So off he went, sailing and searching from sea to sea. He found many animals, but none knew the answer to his question. One day, he spotted something in the distance - an island!

He ran for hours and hours, never stopping for a rest. The weight grew heavier and heavier, but the boy never thought about it. He kept on running, ever faster and ever further.

Lily asked her dad, "Why is the leopard so important?" Her dad replied, "Leopards are important because they help keep the balance in nature." 

They ran to their mom's room and opened the closet. They saw many boxes and bags, but they did not see the surprise. They started to take out the boxes and bags and look inside them. They made a big mess in the closet and on the floor.

John was happy to help. He carefully picked up the monkey’s head and put it back on its shoulders.

Tim said to Tom, "Let's play hide and seek!"
Tom was so excited and they started to look for a good hiding spot.

Mary carefully tucked it into her pocket and started to go back home. As she was walking, her pocket started to weigh heavy. "Why is my pocket so heavy?" she wondered. She reached inside and pulled out the gem. She exclaimed, "Wow! I almost forgot I had it in here".

Sara and Tom wave. They run back to the park. They play some more. They are happy. They are friends.
Ben has a toy car that can zip around the floor. He likes to make it go fast and make noises like vroom and beep. He plays with his car every day after school.

But as he touched it, the beetle opened its wings and flew away. Anna and Ben screamed and ran away from the beetle.

<INSTRUCTION> What did the beetle do, when Ben touched it? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> The beetle opened its wings and flew away. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Tim ran to the water and swam to the ship. He climbed on the deck and looked around. He saw some ropes and barrels and planks. He did not see any treasure. He felt sad and scared. He wished he had stayed with Mia. He heard a loud noise. It was a wave that hit the ship. The ship started to move and tilt. Tim screamed for help. He wanted to go back to the beach. He wanted to play with Mia and his sand castles. He hoped Mia would hear him and come to save him. He hoped she would still be his friend. He hoped the wave would not take him away.
Lily was a famous singer. She sang very well and many people liked her songs. She had a big house, a nice car and a lot of toys. But she was not happy. She wanted to have a friend to play with.

He waved the jar around and made them laugh. Soon, all the animals were gathered around the jar. They played a game and tried to catch the light.

The sun was shining brightly. It was clear and beautiful. Beth looked around and saw some flowers that needed watering. She grabbed the watering can and filled it with water from the tap.

Lily and mom went to the playroom. They got the blocks and started to build. Lily taught the doll how to stack the blocks and make shapes. The doll liked the blocks. She looked happy and clean. Lily was happy too. She said, "See, doll, this is how you play with the blocks. You make a tower and have fun."
Jill was a young girl who liked to play with her toys. She had a flute that made nice sounds when she blew into it. She also had a doll that looked like a fairy. She liked to pretend that the doll could fly and do magic.

Lily and Tom look at Mom and Dad. Mom and Dad say, "Sure, why not? It will be fun." They help Lily and Tom climb into the basket. The man and the woman give them tight hugs. They say, "Welcome to the balloon. Hold on tight. We are going up, up, up!" The balloon makes a loud noise. It lifts off the ground. Lily and Tom feel the wind in their hair. They see the landscape from above. They laugh and clap. They say, "We are flying, we are flying!"
Sara and Ben are twins. They like to play in the backyard. They have a big tent that their dad made for them. They pretend it is a castle or a spaceship or a cave.

The snowman's mouth moved and it said, “Hello! I am your surprise.� 

Jack, Mummy, and Daddy got ready and went to the park. Jack ran around and explored. He saw a lot of colourful flowers, so he picked some for Mummy. Mummy thanked him with a big hug.

Emily was so happy that she began to dance. Everyone smiled and danced along with her. They all had so much fun until it was time to go home.


"Let me try," Mia said. She took the jar from Ben and twisted the lid. But she was too weak. She could not open it either.

<INSTRUCTION> What happened when Mia took the jar from Ben? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She twisted the lid, but she was too weak she could not open it either.
 </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

The two friends were amazed at the grown-up's idea, and they thanked him by smiling and nodding. The grown-up left, and after that the two friends used the trophy to play tag. Every time they used the trophy, they were careful to share it politely.

They smiled and hugged each other. They were happy and proud of their island. They played with sand until it was time to go home.
Ben and Lily are twins. They like to play with their toys in their room. But today, Mom says they have to help with the laundry. She gives them a big basket of dirty clothes and tells them to take it to the washing machine.

At the party, Timmy saw a big cake with lots of frosting. He wanted to eat it all by himself. But that was not kind. So, Timmy shared the cake with his friends. They all had a great time eating it.

Mr. Sun smiled and said, "You're welcome, Tim! Come visit me again soon!"

Lily was very sad and cried a lot. She learned that accidents can happen, but it's important to be careful and take care of the things we love. She promised to be more careful in the future and to always take care of her plants.
Once upon a time, there was a big team of animals. There were lions, tigers, and bears, oh my! They all played together and had fun. But one day, the lion was feeling grumpy. He demanded that everyone be quiet. 

Tom and Lily looked all over the park for the bear. They looked under trees, behind bushes, and even in the sandbox. Then, Tom heard a tiny sound coming from a big tree. He looked up and saw the bear stuck in the tree! Tom climbed up and got the bear for Lily. She was so happy and thanked Tom for his help. From that day on, Lily knew Tom would always be there to help her.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She had a new red ball. One day, Lily went outside to play with her ball. She saw a big bush near her house. Lily loved to throw her ball and watch it bounce.

Jack started to eat the soup with his spoon. It was very bitter, and Jack didn't like it much. He kept eating it though, because his mom asked him too. When Jack finished his soup, he wiped his mouth and said, "Mom, that soup was really bitter!" His mother smiled and said, "I know, Jack. But you ate it all, and that's what's important."
Once upon a time, there was a nice boy. One day, he wanted to do something special. So he went to the store and bought a flag. 

When Daisy and her family arrived, they saw a big pit. Her dad asked, "Do you want to go in?" Daisy was so excited that she jumped in before he finished the question. She ran around, giggling with joy.

Tom felt angry. He wanted the bigger toy car. He thought it was not fair. He thought the other child was mean. He thought he was tough.

<INSTRUCTION> What did Daisy and her family see when they arrived? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> They saw a big pit. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

The bad man thanked the cloud for bringing the water and wrapped himself up in a big, warm towel. He no longer felt bad and went on his way feeling happy and refreshed.
Once upon a time, there was a beautiful palace that everyone wanted to visit. Inside the palace lived a kind and friendly King. His subjects were very happy and content because the King was so generous.

He heard a voice behind him. It was Lila and Tom. They had seen him from their window and were curious. They came down to the backyard and saw his pile of leaves.

They run to the seesaw. They sit on each end. They push with their feet. They go up and down. They smile. They like the seesaw.

Pete was very curious and he walked up to the reindeer. Suddenly, the reindeer became very fearful and it started to jump around.

Finally the squirrel came back. Sam put some of the nuts in his hand and waited. The squirrel came up to Sam and started to eat the nuts right out of his hand, much to Sam's delight.

In the garden, Kitty met a dog named Doggy. Doggy was very alert. He said, "Kitty, be careful. Some herbs are not good for you." But Kitty did not listen. She wanted to eat all the herbs. Doggy tried to stop her, but she did not care.

So the battery mixed the glue and water together in a bowl. As they mixed, they started to make a wonderful bubble mixture. The battery was very excited! The bubble mixture was very strong and the bubbles were bigger and brighter than ever.

The friendship between the three stayed strong, and each of them took care of the other. Even though Mushroom was only a humble mushroom, he was very special to them.
Once upon a time there was a clumsy staff. Its name was Clumsy. Tom and Jill had never seen a staff like Clumsy before. They fed Clumsy some nice treats and wanted to play with it.

So he started to dance in the sky. His graceful moves caused even the clouds to watch. He spread his wings and flew higher, higher and higher until he was just a dot in the sky. 

Jessie and her mommy were so excited. They played with the doll together and had lots of fun!  They laughed and smiled, and shared the whole time. 

The raccoon said, "Let's work together. With your long trunk, you can hold up the trees while I tie them together with string. That will make them stay safe."

Timmy's dad was a handyman and could fix anything. So, Timmy asked his dad to repair his toy for his birthday. On his birthday, Timmy was so happy to see his toy all fixed and brand new again! 

The guests clapped and cheered. They said happy birthday to Sara and gave her compliments and gifts. Sara felt happy and warm. She was still shy, but she was also brave. She said thank you and smiled. She was excited to see her rainbow cake and share it with everyone. She thought it was the best event ever.
Sara and Tom are twins. They like to play together in their room. They have many toys and books on the carpet. But sometimes they fight over the toys and books. They pull and push and yell at each other.

Betty smiled as she opened the bag and brought out a teaspoons. "Wow!" said Boo. "What are these for?" 

After she was done, Lily went back to her journal and drew a picture of her clean and tidy room. She showed her mom and said, "Look, mom! My room is so pretty now!" 

"Go away, Spot!" Ben says. "This is our theater and you can't have it!"

One day they found out that there was a tube in the attic that they could not solve. Matt had no idea how to do it, so he called his friend Jenny to help. Jenny was very smart, so she knew how to solve it.

"You have to put the snake back where you found it," said the mom. But it was too late. The little girl was so scared, she dropped the cooler and the snake slithered away. 

<INSTRUCTION> What did Jenny's mum tell her? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She said, "You have to put the snake back where you found it,". </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Lily was so excited and asked if she could see it. Her mom opened the box and showed her the small chamber inside. Lily loved the way the music sounded and danced around the kitchen. From that day on, Lily loved blue even more because it reminded her of the beautiful music box.
Once upon a time, there was a jolly little girl named Lily. She loved to walk in the park with her mommy and daddy. One day, while they were walking, they saw a big red truck with the word "emergency" written on it. 

The cat searched high and low for the birdie, but he couldn't find him. The birdie was very scared and didn't want to come out of the bush. He waited until he didn't hear the cat anymore and then he flew back to his tree. He was happy to be safe and sound and he sang a beautiful song to celebrate. From that day on, he always kept an ear out for any silly noises in the valley.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to play with her toys in her backyard. One day, she found a big red brick on the ground. She picked it up and looked at it. It was heavy!

"Can I try the axe, dad?" Tom asked. He wanted to be like his dad and chop wood too.

"You'll see," mom said. She continued reading.

<INSTRUCTION> What Anna and Bella do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Anna and Bella laughed, knowing that the table in the garden was a very special place. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Dad said, "Sure, let's race to the shore!" Timmy was so excited. He ran as fast as he could, feeling the sand between his toes. He looked back and saw his dad was right behind him. They both reached the shore at the same time. 

"Hello, boss. I am in the park. I have the package. No one saw me. I will wait for your signal. Over," the man whispers.

After he finished playing, Jack rushed home to show his parents his new toy. He showed them proudly and they applauded him. But then his father saw the toy and he said, "Jack, where did you get this?" 

So he went up to the people and said, "I'm selling my switch". He showed them the switch, and they liked it very much. They bought it and went away with a smile.

He said, "Look Sara, there is a big snake in the water. We can't bathe until it's gone!"

Ben had a friend named Tim, a tall giraffe. He thought Tim could help him get the vine. He went to Tim and mentioned the vine he wanted to eat. Tim agreed to help Ben, but only if Ben would help him find some tasty leaves later.

The bear was happy and they both pushed and pulled together until the stone moved out of the way. They were both very proud of themselves. 

Before long Jack wasn't scared of school anymore. He looked forward to going each day because he knew that school was a reliable place where he could learn new things.
Once there was a big tree. Everyday it grew and grew. One day, a silly bird hopped onto the tree. The bird was looking for something shiny to wear. 

The big, blue button was never used again and it became a mystery. Emma still wonders what would have happened if she hadn't stopped increasing in height.
Once upon a time there was a grumpy girl called Lily. She was three years old and liked to complain about everything.

The little girl felt so sad that she had made her mom mad. She wanted to be a good girl, so she decided to do something nice for her mother. The next morning, the girl got up early and went to pick some bright flowers from the town. After that she made her mom breakfast in bed.

"Can I buy it, mommy?" asked Timmy.

Lily's mom saw her frown and asked her what was wrong. Lily told her about her lost teddy bear. Her mom said, "Let's search for him together!" They looked in every room and under every bed, but still couldn't find him.

Mo got angry and decided to make dinner without Bob. He boiled some potatoes and put them on the table. When Bob went to the kitchen, he saw the potatoes and asked Mo why he hadn't served them. 

"OK, let's play with the truck, but only for a little bit," she said. "And then we can use the truck to help us clean. We can put the toys in the truck, and drive them to the box. It will be faster and more fun."

<INSTRUCTION> What did Jenny's mum tell her? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She said, "You have to put the snake back where you found it." </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

She saw that Max did not eat his celery. She had an idea. She whispered to Max.

The seed thought for a moment and then said: "I will try anyway."

Lily proudly put on her dress and said goodbye to her mommy. She skipped down the street and arrived at the park.

So they did! They banged the drum in a lively way and made a beautiful, lively sound. The quarreling stopped and they heard the sound of happiness. 

Finally she spotted a pair. They were yellow with little cats on the side. "Let’s get these," the mommy said to the daddy.

Mommy and Daddy had a great time unpacking the dictionary.
Once upon a time, there was a farmer who had a beautiful garden. His garden was filled with delicious vegetables and bright-coloured flowers. 

One day, Jack got the exciting news that he had been accepted to the university of his dreams. He was so excited to get started on this new adventure. He told Tim the good news with glee, but Tim didn't seem as excited.

The octopus swam away, leaving the boy by himself. He was happy that he got to catch the octopus, even though it was bad.
Once upon a time, there was a very compassionate spirit. Everywhere she went, she spread joy and love. But one day, the spirit felt very blue. She didn't feel like playing or singing like she usually did. Suddenly, a little voice shouted out from the trees.

"Sam, be careful!" called out Sam's mother. "You can be clumsy sometimes!"

He picked up the axe and started using it. He chopped down big trees and made lots of room in the forest. He felt so pleased with what he had done.

The bunny didn’t give up though. She asked, "Do you wanna play?" Molly shook her head and looked away. The bunny said, “It’s okay, you don’t have to be scared. I’m your friend.�

The surprise visitor arrived and it was Lily's aunt. She was carrying a big box and told Lily that it was a gift for her. Lily was so happy and opened the box. Inside, she found a beautiful new wardrobe! She couldn't believe it. She hugged her aunt and said thank you. 

Lily was sad that she couldn't see the creature anymore. She walked back home, thinking about her new friend. But when she got home, she found that her house was gone. The scary tree's branches had stretched out and taken her house away.

The mom laughed and said, "Oh, it looks like you really want to see what's inside the oven! Well, don't worry, I'll have it open soon enough." 

She ran back to her mom. She was crying.

"Wow! That was amazing," said Baby. 

"Hey Billy, you're not being obedient! You promised to take good care of my engine," said Timmy.

Little Bear was so excited. He quickly opened the chest. Inside, there were lots of shiny coins. Suddenly, something very scary jumped out of the chest. It was a dragon!

Andrew was amazed. He said "Hello! Can you whistle for me?" The grey bird stopped and looked up at him. Then it began to whistle again, this time a little louder. Andrew's eyes sparkled. He said "Wow! That's amazing!"

As they got closer to the end of the march, Cindy noticed something in the air - a smell her mom had in the house the day before. Then, Cindy saw it - a bright pink balloon attached to one of the floats. It was the same ribbon Cindy had tied around her wrist the day before! 

<INSTRUCTION> What were the two sisters doing? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> The two sisters were having so much fun until they heard a loud noise. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

John understood what his mum said and stopped crying. Maybe in a few years he can have a small glass of wine - and he was very happy!
John and his family had a special day planned. They were going to go camping and have lots of fun. John couldn't wait! He loaded the car with all the camping supplies and away they went.

Her mom said, "Yes, but be careful when you cross the road." Lily was excited and started her journey. She walked and walked until she reached the road. She remembered what her mom said and looked both ways before crossing the road. She crossed safely and continued her walk to the distant hill.

Tim picked up the nail and showed it to his friend, Lily. "Look what I found!" said Tim. "What is it?" asked Lily. "I don't understand," she said. Tim smiled and said, "It's a nail! We can use it to build something."

The end.
Nick wanted to ride his bike. He was excited and put on his helmet. Nick was careful when he pedaled down the street. He went faster and smiled with delight. 

They finish their grapes and crackers and go back to the pool. They play with their ball and splash water on their faces and laugh. They are very happy. They have a dependable ball that helps them. They love their ball.
Ben and Mia went to the pet shop with Mom. They wanted to choose a new friend to play with. There were many animals in the pet shop. Some were furry, some had scales, some had feathers.

One day, Daisy saw a small, cute dog in the park. The dog was chasing its tail and barking loudly. Daisy thought the dog was funny and wanted to play with it. She walked up to the dog and said, "Please, dog, play with me and my ball."

She asked her mom, "Can I swing on that one?"

The bear asked him why he was shivering, and the little otter said he had ventured too far away from home and was cold. The bear asked him why he had gone so far, and the little otter proudly said he wanted to explore the new and exciting world around him.

Mia liked the scaly animals. She saw a green lizard with a long tongue. She said, "Mom, can we choose this lizard? He is so scaly and cool. He can climb and stick and change colors."

One day, the mama bird said to her four babies, “Listen carefully! I want you to attach yourselves to the law!�

Tonya thought for a moment and then her face lit up. “Four!� she shouted happily.

Danny saw some other young kids in the park and asked them to play. He showed them his stick and told them he was pretending it was a dog.


<INSTRUCTION> What did the mama bird say to her four babies? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She said, "Listen carefully! I want you to attach yourselves to the law!."  </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

One day, Lucy and Emma decided to play a game. They grabbed an old ashtray and put it in the middle of the living room. Then they both sat down on the floor, looked at the ashtray, and waited.

When they finished, the driver started the car to see how it ran. The car roared to life and drove faster than before. The driver and his friend were so happy!

Mike understood the message and was more excited about the toys. He enjoyed playing with the toys for a long time and never forgot Bob's wise words.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She was very alert and curious. One day, when Lily was out walking, she spotted a muffin in the grass. She picked it up and was delighted. But it wasn’t alone. A match was also with it. 

Daisy smiled at her mom, and hugged her tightly. She felt safe and knew that things would change for the better. Sure enough, the next day, the fierce nightmare was gone, and Daisy's world changed for the better.
Once upon a time there was a little girl named Lucy. She was three years old. That day, Lucy wanted to help her mummy. "Mummy, what can I do?" she asked excitedly. 

Lily said, "Yes Mommy! I can do it!"

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan wanted to do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Joan still wanted to play. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

She tried to pull the bag away from her son. But her son was strong. He pulled harder. He didn't listen to Lisa. He wanted to see the bag.

"I like this spot," Jimmy said. "We should stay here and explore the ornaments."

From then on, whenever they went for a ride, the princess would tell her horse to speed up and they would race through the forest, feeling the wind in their hair. They were the best of friends and always had fun together.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She liked to play with her toys and her dog, Max. One day, Lily and Max went for a walk in the park. They saw a monster! The monster was big and scary. Lily pointed at the monster and said, "Look, Max! A monster!" Max barked at the monster, but the monster didn't move. 

Tom loved dinosaurs. He smiled and put the sticker on his shirt. He wanted to show his mom and dad. He ran to the kitchen, where they were making lunch.

Today was a sunny day, and the little girl was feeling very sleepy. She found a big tree to sit under as she watched the doves up in the sky. Suddenly she noticed a dove land on a branch close to her. Gently, she reached out to try and catch it. "Coo-Coo!" the dove said.

One day, something exciting happened: a modern lollipop machine came to their town! It was so big and shiny and colorful. Rosie had never seen anything like it before.

"What happened, sweetie?" her mom asked.

Lily did not want to give back the comb. She said, "No, I like this comb. It is so pretty and pink. I want to keep it. It is mine now!"

Benny decided to jump over to the mouse and kindly ask for his pencil back. The mouse was surprised but gave the pencil back to Benny. Benny was happy again and could finish his work. Benny learned that it's always better to ask nicely instead of being mean.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to play with her toys, especially her doll and her teddy bear. One day, her mommy gave her a shiny jewel necklace to wear. Lily thought it was so pretty and she felt like a princess wearing it.

Ben was still sad, but he forgave Lily. He said, "It's okay, Lily. I'm sorry too. I should have been more friendly. Can we play together?"

<INSTRUCTION> What did the mouse do when Benny asked for his pencil back? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> The mouse was surprised but gave the pencil back to Benny. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

"You're welcome, Ben. Do you want more?" Lily asks.

Grandpa smiled and said, “You two did a great job helping to restore this pond. It looks wonderful.�
Once there was a boy called Tom. Tom was three years old. Tom was playing outside and he noticed a tank. Tom thought the tank was good. So Tom decided to get closer and have a better look. He went up to the tank and he touched it. The tank felt cold and it was very big.

Dave quickly came up with a plan. He ran up to the boat and yelled at the people to stop. He explained to them that the whale is a living creature and that they should have respect for nature. 

Billy and Susie both agreed to always be careful and never play with sharp objects. From then on, Billy and Susie ran around the park and always told an adult if they ever saw a dangerous object.
 
The moral of the story is: Be careful and alert an adult if something seems dangerous.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl who was frightened by the world around her. Everywhere she looked, she saw danger and she was scared. One day, she decided to go in search of something that would make her feel safe, so she went into the woods.

One day, she found a pair of scissors in her mom's drawer. She thought they looked shiny and fun. She wondered what she could do with them. She had an idea. She took the scissors and went to her room.

When she was done, Emily said, "Let's go swimming again tomorrow!" 
Her mother smiled and said, "Of course, we will!" 

"Yes, sir," Tom says. "The kite was broken. We tried to fix it. But the wind was too strong. It broke the string. It flew away."

The moral of the story is that it's important to be kind to all animals, even if they are different from us.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She had a favorite toy, a teddy bear, that she loved to play with every day. One Tuesday, when she was playing with her teddy bear, she accidentally dropped it and it broke. Lily was very sad and cried a lot.

"Of course, you can keep it, but you have to share it and take good care of it. It is a gift from nature, and we should respect and appreciate it," Mom said.

The rabbit smiled. "That's okay, I forgive you. You can stay and play with me in the hedge if you want."

Lily felt a warm feeling in her heart. She remembered that Sam was her best friend. He always made her laugh. He always shared his toys with her. He was nice to her. She said, "I'm sorry, too, Sam. I was mean to you. I should have let you play with my doll. You are my friend. I still like you."

Mom pulled out a bright, colorful swimming suit. "Do you want to wear this?" she asked.

But one day a brave girl, with beautiful golden curls all around her head, found the ugly pin. She decided to restore it.

The man spoke, “You were being too brave and over confident. You cannot use your power like that.� 

<INSTRUCTION> What idea did Joan have? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She had an idea about going out to the park again, and playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

The moral of the story is to always be careful and pay attention to where you are going, especially when it's slippery outside.
Once upon a time, there was a clever dog named Spot. Spot loved to run and play. One day, Spot heard about a big race in a stadium. Spot wanted to go and try to win.

"Sure, but be careful. Don't lose it or drop it. You need it to go on the plane," Mom said.

Grandma handed him a cup of tea. He sipped it carefully and quickly pulled away. The tea was very sour! He did not like it at all.

"You can build a nest with your toys," said her mom. "But you can't lay eggs in it!" They both laughed and continued to enjoy their day at the park.
Once upon a time, there was a little birdie named Tweety. Tweety was very curious and loved to explore. One day, Tweety flew far away from home and found herself lost in a big desert. She was very thirsty and tired, but then she saw a beautiful oasis in the distance. 

Lily and Ben thanked the man. They said they were sorry for the trouble. The man said it was no trouble. He said he was glad they were okay. He said he had to go. He said goodbye and walked away with his dog. Lily and Ben hugged each other. They said they were happy they were friends. They said they would play hide and seek again, but not with the rope. They laughed and ran to the swings. They had fun. They were happy.
Lily and Ben are twins. They like to play with their toys in their room. But sometimes they fight over the same toy. Today they both want to play with the red car.

That night, Amy noticed the puppy outside the fence, trying to get back in the garden. She asked her mommy why the puppy couldn't get in, and her mommy said the fence was there to make sure the puppy behaved.

The lawyer waved and smiled as Laura left. She had had an exciting and unusual day. She was glad that she had met the friendly lawyer.
Tommy was sad when his mum stopped drying him. His eyes were upset and he wanted to stay warm. When his mum gave him a warm tube, he was happy again. He smiled as he hugged it tightly. He loved how the tube made him feel nice and dry. He felt much better after snuggling with it. 

After having their delicious pancakes, the family was very happy and full.
Once upon a time there were two friends who loved to pick flowers. One day they decided to have a race to the pond. The girl said to the boy, "Let's pick flowers on the way and see who has the most when we get to the pond."

Alice thought about it for a moment, then smiled and said, "I can't fly, but I can crawl!"

The children thanked their dog for being so careful and taking them to a safe place.

So, Bob and Joe went on a march. They had so much fun crunching the icy snow with their feet. Bob and Joe laughed as they slipped and slid all the way down the street. 

She spoke to the animals who were around the pond. "Hello animals, I'm going to swim in the pond, do you wanna come too?" They all said, "Yes" and they followed her in.

Kim and her mom stayed at the lake for a while, watching the ducks play. Kim had a lot of fun, but eventually it was time to go home. She waved goodbye to the ducks, thanking them for being so helpful.
Once upon a time there was a grumpy fisherman. He did not like to talk to anyone but he still gave the best fish to everyone. 

Sam wants to be brave like Tim, but he cannot move. He holds on to the ladder and cries. He wants his mom.

The two ducks were very happy. They continued to play with the ball, splashing and having fun. They had a happy, fun day.
Once upon a time, there lived a magical nut. She was very flexible, so she could move and stretch in any way she wanted. 

As she was putting away her toys, Lily heard a loud noise. It was the alarm clock going off in the kitchen. Lily's mom had forgotten to turn it off. Lily ran to the kitchen to turn off the alarm. When she got there, she saw her little brother, Max, standing on a chair and laughing.

The little girl had an amazing day exploring the ocean. She was so happy she had caught the anchor.
One morning, Mommy made Emily cereal for breakfast. It was Emily's favourite cereal with chocolate and marshmallows. But Emily was feeling sad and didn't want to eat.

“Wow! That’s so cool!� said Daisy.

<INSTRUCTION> What di Joan's mother say to her? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Her mother said, Joan, you must take a nap and prevent getting too hot. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Mum smiled. "You're doing a great job, my darling. Thanks for helping me." The little boy was very proud. 

The little boy was so excited. He ran with his daddy to the river and saw the bridge. It was long and winding. The little boy smiled and started to cross it.

Her mom helped her move the rock and Lily was so happy. She planted a beautiful plant and took good care of it every day. But one day, she accidentally broke one of the plant's leaves. She was sad, but her mom told her it was okay and they could fix it together. 

Jack and Jill decided to take the costume to their neighbour Suzie's house and show her. Suzie was just as excited when she saw the costume. She said they should have a fancy dress parade.

As they walked, they noticed something wonderful. There was a lake, with bright blue waters, and beautiful green trees surrounding it. 

James ran around the garden, playing hide and seek. He ran for so long that he got tired and had to sit down. While he was sitting there, he slowly blinked his eyes to rest them from the sunshine.

However, the adventure had to come to an end eventually. They all had to go back home. They got on the plane and started their journey back. It was a long journey and Peter was ready to go to bed. Finally, they arrived at the airport and it was time to stop. Daddy, Mummy and Peter were happy to be home again.
Once upon a time, there was an old harbor in a small town. Everyone in the town loved the harbor and all its beautiful boats. 

"Sure," Mom said, handing him the spoon. "Here you go!"

Betsy and Lily spent the rest of the day playing and eating grass. They were happy to have each other as friends.
Once upon a time, there was a little baby named Timmy. Timmy had a cozy crib where he slept every night. His crib was very comfortable and had soft blankets and pillows.

One day, Emma was playing in the garden near her house when she saw a deep hole in the ground. She was so excited that she ran inside straight away to ask her mum a question. "What is this deep hole?" she said.

The townspeople were always looking for Bob. They wanted him to play with them.

The little girl thanked the old man, and she set off to search for the cave. She walked for hours but couldn't find it.

The girl felt hurt and ran away crying. Marc tried to apologize, but it was too late. He realized it was his own fault for not valuing her properly and he felt sad because he had hurt the girl's feelings. Unfortunately, it was too late to fix the situation and Marc was left with a dull and boring day.
Once upon a time, there was a princess who lived far away. She was so far that no one knew where she was.

"Can we clap with the drum?" Lily asks.

"I like your shiny scales," said Lily.

After a while, the fox gave up and left. Mrs Fluffy hopped out from under the box and she and her friends finished their yummy apple. Mrs Fluffy was so proud she had found a way
Bob was very excited. He was going to the gym for the first time. He heard his mom say he would get to see lots of fun things. 

Suddenly, they heard a noisy sound coming from the side of the park. They went to see what it was and found a group of boys playing soccer. They asked if they could join, but the boys refused and said they didn't want girls to play with them. 

"My house has a problem, daddy" Mikey said.

Baby hesitated, but she trusted her mama. Slowly, she stepped in the water, and it felt great. Mama laughed, "See baby, I told you it would be nice." Together they both laughed as baby bathed.
Once upon a time there was a little girl called Amy. She was very spoiled and always got what she wanted. One day, Amy wanted to go to the theater. Her mom promised her that they would go if she was a good girl that day. 

"We did it!" Paul shouted. The pigeon however, was long gone – it had escaped!
John and Mommy were at the restaurant. John looked around and saw that there were so many big, colourful things to pick from. He was so excited. He pointed to a huge bowl of ice cream.

Tara eventually solved the problem, and she felt so proud! As she continued to learn more and more math, her teacher kept encouraging her.

The angel reached down and gave the little girl a gentle push. The girl smiled. She was so happy!

Ralph gathered the necessary items and then went to work wrapping all the items. After spending a little time, Ralph measured the parcel to make sure it was the right size, like his mom had told him.

One day, Lily's family went to a restaurant. Her dad ordered some spicy food, but Lily was scared to try it. Her mom said, "Don't worry, Lily. You can try a little bit. It's okay if you don't like it." 

"Or a rocket," Ben said.

Lily's mom leaned down, placing her hand on Lily's shoulder. "Yes," she said, "I'm very lucky. But you are lucky too, Lily. You have me as your mom and that is even luckier than this freezer."

The next day, Uncle continued his journey and soon he reached his destination. At last, he could explore and have a wonderful time.

"What happened here?" she asked. "Why did you lock the door and make a mess?"

One day Susie was playing in the park with her mom when she noticed a strange thing in the sky. It was a different color than she had ever seen before! She was so excited, and she wanted to know what it was and why it was there.

The rain stops. The sun comes out. Sara and Ben hear their mom calling. They crawl out of the hole. They run to their mom. They hug her and tell her about their adventure. Their mom smiles and listens. She is glad they had fun. She is glad they are safe. She is glad they are her children.
Anna and Ben are friends. They like to play in the park. They run, jump, slide and swing. They have fun.

"I know you were curious, but you should not touch things that are not yours," Mom says. "You should ask before you start something. You should respect other people's work."

One day, Tweety decided to try to fly higher than ever before. Tweety flapped their wings with all their might and suddenly, they were flying high in the sky! Tweety felt so proud and happy.

"Look, Lily, these are pears. They are sweet and juicy. Let's get one," Tom said.

Soon, they heard a rustle in the bush. The rabbit poked its head out and sniffed the air. It saw the carrot and licked its lips. It hopped out of the bush and moved towards the carrot.

From that day on, Pete always carried the handle with him on his travels. It helped him and others when they needed it. Pete was a happy penguin who loved to explore new places and help his friends.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Timmy. He loved to swing on the playground near his house. One day, he saw his neighbor, Mrs. Smith, walking by. She was very famous because she had won a prize for her beautiful garden. Timmy wanted to say hello and show her how high he could swing.

Anna and Ben hear the noise. They turn around. They see Rex. They see the man. They see the knife. They are scared. They are shocked. They are grateful.

But then, Lily smelled something bad. It was gas. Gas came from the big pipe near the fence. Gas was not good to breathe. Lily told Ben and mom about the gas. They had to go away fast.

The dog came closer and closer. He sniffed the snowman. He liked the carrot nose. He bit it and pulled it off. The snowman looked funny without a nose. Tom and Lily giggled.

"Hi, Sammy!" said Rosie.

Sue's mom was so happy that she decided to make everyone a very tasty treat as a reward. She made a big cake with lots of sprinkles, and everyone ate it up with joy.

The bad ending here was that Tina had to stay at the hospital for a few days.
John was a strong man. He was always loading heavy things up onto his truck. One day, his truck was very full, so full it was difficult to drive.

<INSTRUCTION> What were the two sisters doing? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> The two sisters were having so much fun until they heard a loud noise. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

So, all the kids danced in the sand. They laughed and had fun. They danced until the sun went down. Then, they said goodbye to the pretty beach and went home. The sand had a big dance party and everyone was happy.
One day, a boy named Tim went to the park with his mom. They sat down to eat lunch. Tim noticed his mom had a rare sauce on her sandwich. "Mom, what is that?" he asked.

They see their mom coming out of the house. She sees the salad on the floor and the kids' mouths.

Just then, her mom gave her a big kiss on the cheek and said, "You don't need to be wealthy to be happy. You have everything you need right here." Lily smiled and hugged her mom. She realized that having love and happiness was more important than any toy or wealth.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. Lily loved to play outside in the wind. She liked to run and feel the wind in her hair. One day, Lily's mommy bought her a new dress. It was pink and had flowers on it. Lily was very happy and she twirled around in her new dress.

The friends looked around trying to figure out what to do. Then, they realized that they needed to put the line back together. They worked together and pulled really hard. It took them a long time, but eventually they got the line back to the way it was before.

Sue ran to the pit and looked down. She could not see Tom. She could only hear his voice, faint and scared.

Timmy apologised and promised that he would be more careful next time. He also thanked his mum for reminding him to be careful.

John smiled and jumped up and down. His parents told him, "But we have to stay very quiet during the fireworks display." John did not like that. He asked, "Why do we have to be quiet?" His father said, "We need to be respectful and accept that some people can be scared of the loud noises and bright lights the fireworks make."

The butterfly flew with the plant through the sky and showed her all the secret places it had explored. Together they flew high, and together they raced through the air.

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan's mother say to her? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Her mother said, Joan, you must take a nap and prevent getting too hot. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Tom rode his bike into the puddle. He made a big splash. The water and mud flew up in the air. He laughed and said, "Whee! That was fun! Do it again!"

But the dragon was not a toy. It was their dog, Rex, who was sleeping on the couch. Rex woke up and saw Ben running at him. He did not like it. He barked and jumped off the couch. He ran towards Ben and Anna.

Suddenly, the ostrich took the apple from Doug's hands and ran away!

Jack listened, but not before he gathered some coins for himself. The others he left in the grass.

Sara laughs. She says, "Do you want to trade?"

The symbol made the little girl feel happy and excited. She couldn't wait to tell her mom about it. When she got back home, she showed her mom the symbol. Her mom was really surprised!

The seagull tried to get the oysters, but Timmy was too strong. The seagull flew away and Timmy saved the day! The oysters were grateful and thanked Timmy for being a good friend. From that day on, Timmy and the oysters always played together and had lots of fun.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to play outside in the park with her friends. One day, she found a dirty ball in the bushes. She picked it up and showed it to her friend, Timmy. 

Her mom laughed and said, "I'm glad you like it, Lily. Just remember to be gentle with it." 

"Come on, fox," Ben says. "We have a ball. We can throw it and catch it. It is fun."

One day, Max wanted to play a new game. He told Tom, "Let's play a game called 'Find the Truth.' We will hide a red ball, and whoever finds it first will know the truth." Tom was excited to play the new game, so Max hid the red ball under a big box.

"Listen, Lily," her mom said. "You're lucky because we're going to the park today!"

The captain smiled and answered, "We are here to collect some fish for our restaurant. Would you like to come with us?"

And they did! They laughed and played until it was time for Anna to go back home. Anna gave the snowman one final hug, thanked it for the fun, and waved goodbye. 

The moral of the story is that practice and patience can help us do anything, even if it seems too hard or too long in the beginning.
Once upon a time, there was a deaf, three year old girl. She loved going to the library every day and read books.

He put the hat on Ben's head. Ben looked at himself in a mirror. He saw the flower moving in the wind. He felt something in his chest. He felt a tickle. He felt a smile. He felt a spirit.

The bird felt impressed and proposed a game. "You need to find 10 pieces of fruit that are hidden in the jungle. Whoever finds them first will be the winner!"

Timmy: "Okay mommy, I will be careful."

"Thanks, Jack," she said. "Honey is my favourite name." 

Finally, after a few days, mama got the car back in working order.

The bush started to sparkle and glitter, it was so beautiful! Everyone stopped to admire it. Even the birds were impressed.
 
The bush was now even more brilliant than ever! Jack was very proud. He had been clever and done something amazing. Now, everyone could admire his masterpiece!
Once upon a time, there was a puppy who lived with a family. The puppy was happy, but one day there was a loud noise outside. The puppy was scared, so it ran and hid. The family looked outside and saw police. Suddenly, they all got very worried.

The next morning, Remy did not wake up early. He was very foolish to sleep late. When he woke up, he ran to the garden to eat the big radish. But he was too late.

Suddenly, their mom came into the room. She said, “Stop! What is going on here?�

Tommy kept jumping and watching the motor with fascination. He said in his little, helpless voice, "Mommy, can I keep the motor? Please, Mommy?"

"No, Max," replied Lily. "You can't play with my watch. But we can play together!"

Ben and Lily nodded. They liked games and puzzles. They wanted to see what was inside the suitcase.

"Mom, mom, help!" they shouted. "There is a monster in the park!"

At bedtime, Lily snuggled with her stuffed animal and ate some candy. She felt happy because she owned two things she loved - something sweet and something soft. She fell asleep with a smile on her face.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Timmy. Timmy loved to play with his toy cars and trucks. One day, Timmy's mom took him to the store to buy some groceries. Timmy saw a big cart in the store and asked his mom if he could ride in it.

So the dish agreed to come to the girl's house. Together they went and the girl was so excited and happy! She carried the dish all the way home and never refused to give it away. The dish was now lucky to have such a special home with the girl.
One day, Jim was playing a game. He wanted to win! He used his machine. It was big and looked very dull. He worked really hard to get the machine to do what he wanted. Then he heard something amazing! He had won! Everyone cheered for Jim for winning with his machine. Jim was so happy he wanted to do it again. He raced to the machine and started playing the game. He wanted to win again! After much trying, he was able to win again! Now, Jim was the happiest he had been in a long time. The machine was the best!
Once upon a time, there was a shy little girl who loved to paint. One day, she was walking through the park when she saw something shiny in the grass - it was an axe! She had never seen a real axe before, and she was both curious and scared about it. 

They stayed at the park for a while and enjoyed the sun and the breeze. They had a wonderful day.
Tom was a spoiled boy who always wanted new toys. He did not like to share with his friends or play nicely. One day, he saw a gun in his dad's closet. He thought it was a toy and he wanted to play with it.

The park ranger was surprised, he knew that gray trees do not usually take nests. He explained to Jake that the tree was special because it had wide branches that were great for birds to build homes. It was no wonder why the bird chose it as its temporary home!
Once upon a time there lived a bee called Buzz. Every week, Buzz would go and help the other bees with the hive. He loved doing his work and made sure the bees did a good job.

Lily was sad that she couldn't walk or play outside for a while. But she knew that she would feel better soon. She learned to be careful when she walks and not to fall again.
Once upon a time, there was a farmer named Jack. Jack had a big farm with lots of animals. He had cows, pigs, and chickens. Jack also had a big field where he grew corn and wheat.

The little boy nodded his head in understanding. He was no longer confused, and he helped the people release the animals. After the animals had been released, the village was safe again.
One day, Joe and his mom went to the store. Joe could hardly contain his excitement. "Why are we here, Mom?" he asked.

At the end of the day, the rabbit hopped away into the bush, feeling happy and safe.

Lily's mommy said, "I told you it might happen, Lily. Sometimes things that seem important can be dangerous."

When she arrived, she saw her neighbor. He was a kindly old man with a big, friendly smile. She smiled back and decided to make a request. She asked if he could give her a surprise. 

Tim showed Sue the new loop. Sue said, "Now I love the loop too, Tim! It's not harsh anymore." Tim and Sue played with the loop all day. They were both very happy.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Tim. Tim lived in a small house with his mom, dad, and his dog, Spot. Tim loved to play with Spot every day after school. They would run around the yard and have lots of fun together.

But the young girl refused to believe them. She was determined to get the medal, no matter what. She closed her eyes and wished with all her might.

"I'm exploring!" said Lily. "This lake is so big, I can't keep my eyes off it!"

But then something strange happened. As Bob continued to observe, he noticed a cloud up in the sky slowly moving directly over the sun. Perhaps this was Bob’s sign? He took a deep breath and decided that he should try something he never did before.

But later, the rain stopped and it made Lucy sad. She wanted to keep playing in the rain. So Lucy stomped her feet and said, "Where is the rain?"

But then, her grandma came up with an idea. She said they could fix the car together. So, they got some glue and worked on the car until it was all fixed up. Lily was so happy again! She hugged her grandma and thanked her for the visit.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily who loved playing in the snow. One day, she looked outside and saw that it was snowing! She put on her coat, hat, and gloves, and ran outside to play.

Lily's dad heard the screen from the bedroom. He could not sleep. He was angry. He got up and opened the door. He walked to the living room and saw Lily and her mom on the couch. He said in a loud voice, "Can you please turn off the screen? You are disturbing me. I need to sleep."

<INSTRUCTION> What idea did Joan have? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She had an idea about going out to the park again, and playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Their mom gasped and clapped her hands. "Oh, wow! This is the most fancy and beautiful card I have ever seen! Thank you so much, Lily and Ben! You are the best painters and the best twins in the world! I love you, too!" she said.

Bob was very proud of himself. He had sailed to a new adventure on his own.
Once upon a time there was a round dog named Trouble. He was always troubled and couldn't find a place to call home. Everywhere he went, people didn't want him around. 

Bob smiled and said, “It is what friends do.�
Once upon a time, there was a little girl called Amy. She was three years old, but she was very smart. Her mother took her to the library, so she could learn some new things.

The bear ran to the blanket and touched its soft fabric. He noticed a tiny stitch all around the edge. With his tiny paws, the bear pulled the stitch, and uncovering the surprise - a fast little mouse! The mouse quickly ran away. 

Jane had a wonderful time in the field. She ran, jumped and laughed with glee. She forgot all about acting responsibly. On her way home, she came across an old lock on the ground. It glinted in the sun and she was curious about it.

The old man smiled, and said, "This is a skull, my child. It's very special to me. That's why I polish it all the time".

"Hi, we are Ben and Lily," the boy and the girl say. "We like your slide. Can we play with you?"

The bad man felt happy. He smiled for the first time in days. He jumped in the water and soaked up the sun. He swam in the water for hours and felt so clean and refreshed.

Lily and Tom were so happy. They played with the new red ball all day long. From that day on, they were always careful not to let the ball go near the big bush again.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Amy. Amy was playing in her room when she saw a toy toilet. She loved the toy toilet and wanted to play with it all day. She knew she had to rub the toy toilet to make it work. So, she rubbed it and waited to see what would happen.

By the end of it, the chair looked so beautiful! Lily smiled and was filled with pride.

Mila felt smart and brave. With her mom’s help, she kept learning, and kept counting.
Once upon a time there was a large family. Each day they had to organize their lives. They worked together to make sure everyone was happy.

Later that day, Lily's mom made some tea. She asked Lily if she wanted some, but Lily said no. She didn't like tea because it was bitter. Instead, Lily asked for some juice. Her mom gave her some orange juice and they sat together on the couch, talking and laughing. Lily forgot all about her sore knee and enjoyed her juice.
Once upon a time, a boy named Timmy went to the beach with his mom and dad. They played in the sand and swam in the water. Timmy found a big rock on the beach and he picked it up. He threw the rock into the water and watched it splash.

When they were finished, they started to walk back home together. But on the way, a big, mean dog came out from behind the bushes and started barking.

Inside the hole, Sara and Ben are happy. They have a secret place. They can play and talk and laugh. They do not care about the rain. They keep each other warm and cozy. They pretend they are animals or pirates or fairies. They have many stories to tell.

"Be careful, kids," the man says. "This dog is not for petting. He is a guard. He helps me catch bad people."

Just then, one of her friends walking past the park heard her cries and came to her rescue. 

Rachel was curious, so she decided to take a closer look. She got off her bike and walked over to the table. When she got closer, she couldn't believe her eyes. It was an enormous table! 

At lunchtime, Lizzy decided to get her hair wet. She took a dip in the ocean and swam around. When she got out of the water, her blond hair was wet. 

Suddenly, Jenna had an idea! She suggested they both draw a picture together. David was delighted and agreed straight away. The two bears started colouring and drawing and in the end they created a beautiful picture. Jenna and David smiled at each other.

But then, Ducky remembered something. His friend, Mr. Goose, had told him about a secret path that led to the other side of the lake. Ducky knew that if he took the path, he could reach the bread. 

Ben climbed into the kayak and grabbed a paddle. He waited for Sam to join him.

Mama and Papa wanted to share the plate, so they gave it to the neighbours. Everyone said it was yummy, and they were so happy to get the special treat.

Lily had a pretty blouse that she liked to wear. It was pink with flowers. One day, they went to the beach and Lily wanted to wear her blouse. But it was hidden in her bag! She looked and looked until she found it.

“Those peppers look very delicious!� said Lucy. She was so eager to pick them that she started picking the peppers right away.

The girl ran as fast as she could. She was dashing around the circle like a gazelle. Timmy and his friends cheered her on. Finally the girl was the first one to reach the finish line. 

"Look, Mommy! A dancer!" Lily said excitedly. The dancer was wearing a shiny costume and moved gracefully to the music. Lily was amazed and watched the dancer with wonder. 

After breakfast, Lily's mom asked her to help with the laundry. Lily was a little naughty and didn't want to help. But her mom said it was important to help each other. So, Lily helped her mom put the dirty clothes in the washing machine. 

One day the cat said to the rat "You have learned so much. You are now ready to go and share all that you have learned with the world."
The rat smiled and said "Thank you for everything! I will always remember my teacher." 

At last, Susie had herself a very nice sweater, which Jack thought looked even better than his. Susie was so happy and Jack was so proud of her!

"Goodbye, little flea. Thanks for being so creative!" She said as she watched it run away. 

As they were leaving the store, Lily accidentally bumped her finger on the cart. She started to cry and her mom said, "Oh no, did you hurt your finger? Let me kiss it and make it better." Lily felt better and said, "Thank you, mommy. I love you." And her mom replied, "I love you too, my little tall girl."
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to play outside in the big green grassy field near her house. One day, she saw a red ball bouncing towards her. She caught the ball and started to play with it. She kicked the ball, then she threw it, and then she rolled it. But suddenly, she needed to take a step back and pause. She saw a little bird with a broken wing on the ground. She gently picked up the bird and took it to her mommy. Her mommy helped the bird and soon it was able to fly again. Lily was very happy that she helped the little bird.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She had a favorite rag doll that she carried everywhere. The doll was very fragile, so she had to be careful not to drop her.

Lily saw a beautiful book with a picture of a princess on the cover. She pointed at it and said, "Mommy, I want that one!"

The moral of the story is that it's always nice to offer to share with others, even if it's something small like a toy. It can make someone's day!
Once upon a time, there was a little doggy named Max. Max lived in a cozy house with his owner, Lily. One day, Max saw a yummy bone on the other side of the fence. He wanted to eat it so much!

<INSTRUCTION> What Anna and Bella do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Anna and Bella laughed, knowing that the table in the garden was a very special place  </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

"Let's go and see!" Tom said. He ran to the shore and waved at the boat. Mia followed him, but she was a little scared.

"Can I have ice cream, please?" she asked her mom gently. 

Later that day, Lily and her friend Sarah were playing at the park. Sarah was swinging on the monkey bars and Lily wanted to try too. But when she tried, she fell down and hurt her muscle. Sarah asked, "Are you okay?" and Lily said, "No, my muscle hurts."

<INSTRUCTION> What Anna and Bella do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Anna and Bella laughed, knowing that the table in the garden was a very special place. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

The townspeople cheered even louder and celebrated the mysterious score they had built together.
Bob was walking through the woods when he heard someone calling his name. He stopped and looked around. He saw an image of a mommy and daddy surrounded by a big, fuzzy bear walking towards him.

"You need to come to dinner. It will be fun," said her mother.

Mom smiled at her. "Yes indeed. It is beautiful, isn't it ?"

The display became louder and brighter and John got excited. All of a sudden, he started to shout, "This is so stupid! I want to set off a firework myself!" His parents were surprised, their eyes widened. His father said firmly "No, John! That is not acceptable. You must understand that fireworks are for grown ups only and it is very dangerous for a child to use them." 

<INSTRUCTION> What idea did Joan have? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She had an idea about going out to the park again, and playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

The mother tried to calm the little boy but he was too embarrassed to stop. He knew he was jealous and he didn't want his family to know.

Mouse 1: "Hey little fishy, do you want to have some fun with us?"
Jax: "Oh that sounds like fun! What can I do?"
Mouse 2: "Swim around us and we'll chase you in the car!"

Lily hugged her mom and her bear. She said she was sorry too and she loved them. She said she would bathe now and be a good girl. She said she would be careful and not touch the traps. She said she hoped the mice would not hurt her bear again. Her mom smiled and said she hoped so too. She said they would play more after the bath. Lily nodded and smiled. She was happy and calm. She and her bear went to bathe with her mom.
Lily and Max are friends. They like to play together. One day, they go to Lily's house after school. Lily's mom says they can have a snack.

One day, Tom and Spot went for a walk in the woods. They saw a little girl named Sue. Sue was sad. She had a paper and wanted to make a paper boat, but she didn't know how. Tom said, "I can help you fold the paper to make a boat."

The bee thought for a moment and then said, "You may not be pretty like the other flowers, but you have something special. You have a sweet smell that I like." The ugly flower felt a little better.

The little king smiled and thanked the fairy before picking up the stone and skipping home. He followed the stars all the way back to his castle, feeling very happy and excited.
James and his dad were outside looking at the sky. 

But then, Timmy's daddy came in and woke him up. Daddy said, "Timmy, come sit with me in the armchair." Timmy was happy to see his daddy and climbed out of bed. 

They started to pull the crystal from each other. They did not want to share. They did not hear their mom calling them for lunch.

"They are very nice, aren't they?" the teacher says. "They are for you. You can have some stickers and make your own pictures. You can use any symbol you want. Just be careful and don't stick them on the walls or the furniture."

"No, I don't like cold either. Let's close the door and get a blanket. Then we can play more." Lily says.

<INSTRUCTION> What di Joan's mother say to her? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Her mother said, Joan, you must take a nap and prevent getting too hot. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

But Lily said, "No, I only want pink paint. It's my favorite." 

She took it to her garden, when she got home, and planted it there. Every day she would go to check on the mushroom and sing it a special song. 

Sam does not listen. He tries to pull the car from Ben's hand. Ben holds on tight. They pull and pull and pull. The car breaks in half. They both cry.

They walk closer to the black car. They want to see inside. They are curious. They are not scared.

The kangaroo hopped all the way home. He loved his new stick. He used it to play with his friends. They used it for jumping and hopping games.

Anna looks at Dad's fork. It is big and shiny and has four teeth. She likes Dad's fork. She reaches for it, but Dad stops her.

"Where did you find it?" Lily asked.

As they rode around the park, Lily talked to the horse and told him all about her day. The horse listened and even seemed to nod his head in agreement. When the ride was over, Lily thanked the man and the horse for a fun adventure. From that day on, whenever Lily went to the park, she always looked for her horse friend.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to play on her soft carpet in her room. One day, she found a weird toy hidden under her bed. It was a funny looking doll that could display different colors. 

The child was so excited to see the birds eat that they laughed and clapped with joy. After the birds were finished eating, the mother and the child went to go play.

Lily picked up the boat and made it wave back and forth. "Look mommy, the boat is waving!" she said. 

The little girl enjoyed her snack. She had a lot of fun! She was so lucky to find such a tasty treat. She couldn't stay long, but it was a great snack!
Once upon a time there was a little girl. Her name was Lucy. She was three years old.

Mark quickly became the happiest person in the town and the people were delighted. They danced and laughed and welcomed the new visitor in their midst. 

The police took her to a special place with lots of friendly people who could help her. They told her that it was ok to be anxious and gave her lots of advice. 

As they were playing, the purple butterfly flew by again. Lily and Jack rushed to catch it together. This time, they caught it and watched it fly away happily. Lily and Jack hugged each other and said, "We make a great team!"
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved playing with her bucket in the sand. One day, she saw a boy playing with a bigger bucket. She wanted to play with his bucket but was worried he wouldn't let her. 

And from then on, every day Steve made sure to do good things. He learned more and had a better life than before.
Once upon a time there was a lion. He liked to roar very loud! One day, he wanted to make a special sound. He needed a firework for extra loudness.

Tom puts on a blue shirt, a red hat, and the belt. He thinks he looks like a cowboy. He says "Yee-haw!"

Bob was feeling so proud of himself. He had done it! He had used a knife to cut something all by himself. And now it was time to eat the popcorn!

The boy says, "I don't want to exercise. I want to play."

Lily and Tom were sad and disappointed. They had no balloon to play with.

It was so much fun trying to balance and juggle at the same time! But it was also very tricky. She tried over and over again, and soon the little girl was very good at balancing and juggling.

Anna is angry. She demands Ben's blue mittens. She tries to grab them from his hands. Ben is angry too. He does not want to give his blue mittens. He tries to hold them tight.

Tweety was sad and hungry, but then a wise old owl came and said, "Tweety, don't give up yet. Keep trying and you will catch the worm." Tweety gazed at the owl, and decided to follow the advice. Tweety tried again and again, and finally caught the worm!

"Hey, little mouse," said the cat. "That's my cheese. Give it back!"

The reliable balloon had something special. It had a message on it. This message said "Happy Birthday". Such a special message was worth showing off!

Tim filled the spray bottle with water. He went outside to his friend, Sally. Tim said, "Look, Sally! I found a spray bottle!" Sally was excited, too. They decided to play with the spray bottle together.

Sam nodded and thanked the doctor. He hugged Rex and said he loved him. He also said he regretted running up the hill and hurting his lung. He learned his lesson and promised to be more safe. He was glad he was fine and that Rex was his best friend.
Lily and Ben were friends who liked to play at the park. They both loved the swing, but there was only one swing. They took turns to push each other and have fun.

Soon, the whole group of animals were sneezing. They would sneeze so loud that the birds in the sky flew away. The orange potato was so proud that all his friends were learning to sneeze.

He ran back to his friends and asked if anyone knew whose lemon it was. His friend Petey said, "I think it's Mrs. Smith's lemon tree. She won't be happy if you take it!"

They start the race. Lila and Sam run very quick. They think they will win. But Mia runs quicker. She is very fast. She touches the tree first. She wins the game.

Jack grabbed the eraser and nodded. He was so excited! He rubbed it all over his paper and it erased the mistakes he had made.

<INSTRUCTION> What di Joan's mother say to her? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Her mother said, Joan, you must take a nap and prevent getting too hot. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

"Spot, come here!" the lady says. "I'm sorry, kids, he took my purse. He likes to chew on things."

Tom nodded and ran outside. He followed a path that led to the hill. He saw many things on his way: flowers, birds, rocks, and bugs. He stopped to look at them and sometimes picked them up. He was having a lot of fun.

Sara and Ben are happy. They thank the painter for his nice words. They give him their pictures as a gift. He thanks them and says he will keep them. He says they are his friends. Sara and Ben hug him and say they are his friends too. They go back to Mommy and tell her about the painter. Mommy says they are very sweet and polite. She says she is proud of them. Sara and Ben smile and hug Mommy. They like the painter and the new color of their house.
Tom likes to shine his shoes. He has black shoes that he wears to school. He wants them to look nice and smooth. He gets a newspaper from his dad and puts it on the floor. He gets a brush and some polish from his mom and starts to shine his shoes.

The girl was so relieved and ran to him. She hugged him tightly and said, "Please don't run away again. I was so scared!"

One day, Lucy had a special ball. She threw it with all her might and with a huge grin on her face. She couldn't believe it when Ben said she had thrown it ten meters! 

Lily: "Let's go see!"

"But Tom, being strong is not only about loading a lot of sand," Lily said. "Being strong is also about being kind and sharing with others. If you load less sand, we can both play with the boards and have more fun."

Sam thinks for a moment. He says, "I want to name it Blue. Blue is a good name. Blue is a good color. Blue is a good friend."
Lily and Ben were playing with their toy vehicles in the garden. They had cars, trucks, buses and bikes. They liked to make noises and pretend they were driving.

Much to her surprise, the tree had a hollow spot in the middle! Sally was excited and quickly crawled inside. She found some hidden treasures and started to collect them. 

The little fish swam away, happy to be free. The little girl smiled and went on her way.
Molly and her mom were walking in the park. Molly saw a fat tree. She ran over to it and saw a big, green leaf. Molly reached out her hands and squeezed the leaf. She chuckled when it made a funny sound.

One day, the villagers were sitting in a field. Suddenly, Einstein flew over them and said, "Hello people of the village!" The villagers were so surprised they jumped up and waved. 

Lily was alone in her room. She felt her thumb in her mouth. She looked at her toys and books. They were organized. But they were not fun. They did not talk to her or hug her or laugh with her. They were just things. She felt sad and lonely. She wished she had a friend. She wished she had been nice to Max. She wished she had shared and played. But it was too late. She had made a bad choice. And she had to live with it.

Bob started with the tomato plants. He put them in a neat row. The tomatoes were big, red, and yummy. He smiled as he looked at them. Next, he planted the carrots and peas in their own rows. He was happy with his work.

Her mom smiled proudly. "Yes, I rescued you," she said. "But we must be more careful with the faucet, okay?" 

<INSTRUCTION> What Anna and Bella do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Anna and Bella laughed, knowing that the table in the garden was a very special place. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Katie was so happy, she almost forgot she had been sad. She thanked her parents, gave them both a big hug, and enjoyed her delicious lollipop.
Once upon a time, there was a stubborn kid who was determined to wrap a present all by himself. He scrunched up his face and said, "I can do it, I can do it!"

Jane was sad. She said, "But it's so incredible. Can't I just play with it for a bit?" 

Lily tried again, but she still couldn't balance her toys. She felt sad and frustrated. Suddenly, her cell phone rang. It was her grandpa calling. "Hi Lily, I heard you're having trouble balancing your toys. You know, you're a very intelligent girl. Maybe you can try using some blocks to make a stronger base for your tower."

Daisy sniffled and said, "The pole broke and I can't swing anymore".

One day, an adventurous little boy spotted the rhinoceros and decided to follow it. With excitement, the little boy ran after the rhinoceros, but he was too small to keep up.

The little prince was so happy and proud to have his new crown. He knew that it would make him feel special just like the old one. He smiled and put the crown on his head. 

"Sure, go ahead!" the boy said.

Mom smiled and said, "How about we go out for some ice cream instead? I have a ticket for a free cone from the store."

Mom tucked Lila in and kissed her forehead. She turned off the light and left the room. Lila hugged the book and closed her eyes. She dreamed of swordfish and gills and lungs and the sea. She was a clever girl who liked to learn new things.
Anna liked to skip in the park with her mom. She liked to see the flowers, the birds and the big statue of a man on a horse. The statue was very old and had a funny hat and a sword. Anna wanted to touch the statue, but she was shy.

"Vroom, vroom, thank you," Ben says for the car. "This is a good cake. It is sweet and soft."

Lily watched as the doctor gave the bird some medicine and put a tiny nail in its wing. She thought the bird was so adorable and couldn't wait for it to fly again. 

Tom and Lily and the dog played in the snow. They had fun. They forgot about the snowman. He was still funny without a nose.
Lily and Ben are friends. They like to play together at school. On Wednesday, they have music class. They learn new songs and how to make sounds with different things.

"We are so clever!" Tom said.

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan learn? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She learnt that she could prevent getting too hot by playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Amy and Tim's mom and dad were very proud of them for wanting to help the kitten. They all worked together to feed the kitten and find its home. The kitten was happy to be home, and Amy and Tim learned that it is important to help others.
Once upon a time, in a small school, there was a green room. In this green room, there was a class of little kids. They liked to play, laugh, and learn new things. Their teacher, Miss Lily, was very kind and loved to teach them.

One day Melody was swimming around the tank, when suddenly she noticed a hidden door. She swam closer, and heard a voice coming from the door.

Her mommy laughed and said, "Oh Sophie, I think it's best if adults use the coffee machine."

But then a big boy came. He had no cone. He looked at Sara and Ben and said, "Give me your cones. I want them."

She and Tom chase after Spot. They try to get the thread back. But Spot is faster and stronger. He bites the thread and breaks it. He makes a big mess.

One day, Daisy went to play in the garden. While she was there, she found a beautiful crystal lying in the grass. It glittered in the sunshine and Daisy thought it was magical. She wanted to keep it for herself.

They crawl back through the hole. They run to their mom. She sees them and gasps.

The little girl paused for a second, thought about it, and then smiled. She said, "Yes please! That would be fun!".

"Look, Anna, you can use your fork to eat the cheese. Cheese is yummy and soft and yellow," Dad says. He shows Anna how to cut the cheese with his fork.

Little Joe said, “Hello? Who’s there?�

They played and played until they were tired. Spot and the bird sat under the tree to rest. "That was fun!" said Spot. The bird agreed, and they both took a nap in the shade.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Tim. He had a big pocket on his shirt. He liked to put things in it. One day, he found a pretty flower. He wanted to keep it in his pocket.

When they arrived at Sarah's house, they saw a lot of dishes. Sarah said, "Wow, let's collect them all". They ran around, collecting dishes. Every time they got one they would be very excited, and give each other a high-five. 

"Hi, kitty," said the little girl. "Your tail is so long!"

"Look!" one child said. "Is that a princess?"

So they started to run through the field and the truck beeped its horn. The farmer heard it and came to check on them. 

The dog's owner sees them and smiles. She is a nice lady who lives in the house next to the one with the smoke. She says her name is Mrs. Lee and her dog's name is Sunny.

The little girl was so excited! She quickly ran off to get her towel.

"Yes, we are, Sam. And we are very lucky, too. No one can take our nuts away from us," Tim said.

The daughter took the apron and put it on. She ran around, showing off her new apron to everyone in the house. Everyone smiled and laughed.

Joe was surprised and looked around to see who had spoken. It was an old man. He was bent over and walking slowly towards Joe. 

Then Dad had an idea. He said, "Let's have a game. I will hide the lollipop and you have to find it. If you find it, you can have it." 

"Sure!" Alex said. "But first, let's weigh our flashlights to see whose is brighter." 

One day, they saw a big sign in the park. It said: "Keep the park tidy. Put your trash in the bin." Sara and Ben nodded. They wanted to help keep the park clean.

The dog did not listen. He ran away with the bear. Lily chased him, but he was too fast. She cried and cried. She wanted her bear back. She felt very embarrassed. She thought the other kids would laugh at her.

Anna and Ben smile and hug the dog. They forget about the treasure and the map. They have a new friend. They are happy.
Lily and Ben are playing in the park. They see a big bird on a tree. Lily wants to take a picture of the bird. She has a camera that her dad gave her. She is very careful with the camera.

The elevator started to go up, and Lola was so excited! She felt like she was flying up the building. Suddenly, something felt a bit slippery under her feet. It was the elevator's floor! All of a sudden, it started to slip away.

"What's wrong?" Lily asked the boy. 

Her mom replied, "Sorry sweetie, we can't go back home now. Let's just play and have fun in the park." 

Daisy smiled and said, "Really?"

Lily was relieved they could go home, but she still thought the porcupine was very scary. That was one of the most terrible things she had ever seen!
Once upon a time, there was a theater. Inside the theater, there was a clown. The clown was so stupid! He laughed and smiled but didn't do anything else.

Just then, Lily's dog, Max, came into the kitchen. He barked loud, "Woof! Woof!" Lily said, "Max, you are so loud! I am making lemon juice. Do you want some?" Max wagged his tail and barked again, "Woof! Woof!"

The boy was so intrigued and mesmerized that he decided to do some beach study. He gathered some shells, rocks, and sand in a bag and examined them closely. He made some beautiful sketches and wrote about how the ocean changed the beach.

"Let's never get lost like that ever again", said Bill.

Moral: Be friendly even to those who appear scary.
Once upon a time, there lived a small, fearful mouse in a cozy little house. One night, the mouse saw something glowing through the window. It was so bright and warm. It made the mouse feel curious and brave.

Bob tried to show Sue how to play catch, but Sue was scared of the ball. She did not want to get hit. Bob tried to make Sue feel better. "Don't worry, I will be gentle," he said.

Emily wanted to get a closer look so she decided to go stand in it. She hopped and skipped over to the edge of the swamp. When she got there, she heard a voice. It said, "You can stand in here if you want, but be careful! The ground is wet and it can get slippery." Emily remembered the voice's words and slowly stepped into the swamp.

They got to the airport and through security with Joy. They took the train and arrived at the gate. Maggie couldn't contain her excitement.

The man thought for a moment, then replied, "It makes me feel safe and secure. It's like an anchor to me!" 

One day, Tim decided to ride around the whole city. On his way, he saw a wealthy old man. He was wearing a fancy sweater, and Tim wanted it very much. He asked the man if he could have the sweater, but the man said no and laughed. 

Max and Jenny hugged each other and went back home, full of joy and surprise!
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lila. She was a very happy and mischievous girl. 

One day, a little boy named Tim wanted to taste the famous snack. He asked his mom for the cookie. His mom said, "Yes, you can have the cookie." Tim was very happy.

"Sorry, Tom. I can't give you ice cream for free," said the ice cream man. Tom was sad and walked away.

After a while, Timmy got tired and decided to rest on a bench. He saw a zipper on his jacket and started to play with it. Suddenly, he got dizzy and fell off the bench. His mommy rushed to him and hugged him tight. Timmy felt better and they went home. 

A little girl named Sarah was walking by one day. She saw the lazy cart and wanted to play with it.

Tom listens and nods. He understands now. He says he is sorry for making a mess. His dad says it is okay and he is proud of him for trying new things. He asks him if he wants to play basketball again. Tom says yes and he smiles. He picks up the ball and they go outside. They have fun and they forget about the sour lemon.
Lily likes to write. She writes with her crayons on paper. She writes her name, and flowers, and stars. She writes every day.

The mommy said, "What do you have in the bag?"

He searched and searched, but he couldn't find anything! But then he came across a pond and he saw something sparkling in the water. He bent down and he scooped it up in his beak - it was the perfect drink! It was cold and sweet and it made him feel amazing.

But alas, the rabbit couldn't reach the cabinet. He was so close, but it still seemed too far away. He was just about to give up, when he had an idea. He hopped up on the chair, then on top of the table. He was so close to the cabinet, he thought he might get it.

They look at each other. They feel sorry. They say sorry.

Mommy came over and said "It's ok, George. We can use my key instead." She put the broken key in her pocket. She hugged George and wiped away his tears.

The family hugged each other and said that from know on, they would always tell the truth, no matter what. 

Lily went to bed that night feeling happy and proud of herself. She knew that even though she didn't like the sauce, she had been honest with her mom and that was the most important thing.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. One day, she went to the ice cream truck and received a cone with her favorite flavor, chocolate. She was so happy and ate it quickly.

The cricket jumped onto Tom's hand. Tom smiled and said, "I wish I could drive you around the block." 

The man looked up and smiled. He saw the bucket and the crab and the shells and the stones.

"Let's go explore the farm!" the goat said.

"OK, Ben, but be careful!" Anna said, following him. They opened the door and saw a dark and dusty room. There were boxes and bags and old things piled up. They used their comb to see better.

"Wow, you are great, Mia!" Tom said, as he clapped his hands. "Can I try?"

Later, they found a small plant that needed water. Tim waved the smooth stick and said, "Spray!" To their surprise, water really sprayed out of the stick! The plant grew big and tall. Tim and Sally were amazed by the magic stick. From that day on, they knew they had a special stick that could help them and others.
Once upon a time, in a modest little house, there lived a nice cat and a cute dog. They were good friends and played together every day. The cat liked to grab toys with her paw, and the dog liked to grab toys with his mouth.

When they finally arrived at their destination, Lucy got very scared. She saw some scary creatures with sharp teeth. They seemed like they wanted to hurt her. 

"Roar!" Anna says. "Is that how you say hello?"

As he walked along the path, he noticed a rope tied to a large tree. He was very curious and wanted to know what it was for. He tugged and untied the rope, but nothing happened.

"We wanted to make a cake for you," Tom said.

Tom looked around and saw a stick. He picked it up and tried to poke the lock with it. He pushed and twisted and banged, but the lock did not open.

Zoomy saw his friend, a big blue car named Biggy. Biggy said, "Zoomy, can I join you to play?" Zoomy said, "Yes, but we must race to see who is the fastest!" Biggy agreed, and they started to race. Zoomy went zoom and made a loud whistle sound, but Biggy was going faster.

"No, you're not! I'm faster than you!" Ben said.

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan wanted to do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Joan still wanted to play. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

One day, Jill skips to the farm. She sees a big horse. She wants to skip with the horse. She goes near the horse and says, "Hello, horse. Do you want to skip with me?" The horse looks at Jill and shakes his head. He says, "No, thank you. I do not skip. I run. Skipping is for little girls, not for big horses."

Jack asked his mom if he could have a motorcycle. But Jack's mom said no. Jack was very frustrated. He did not understand why he could not have a motorcycle.

"Lily! Ben! Are you okay?" mom and dad said, hugging them.

Vito thought about it and realized that Joe was right. From then on, whenever Vito got angry, he used his words instead of slapping things.
Alice stood in front of the stove and excitedly peered inside. She was sure she had seen something move.

When the cake was ready, the little girl was excited to take out her masterpiece. As she tasted the cake, she noticed something was missing. She thought it needs something sweet, so she added honey.

Then, the jailer had an idea. She was not too fond of the neighbor either and thought it was very stupid of him to put Maya in jail. So the jailer let Maya go and told her never to pick the neighbor's flowers again.

One day, he was making a salad. He filled it with lots of different things like lettuce, tomatoes and cucumbers. He smiled as he filled it up. When he was done, the salad was huge!

That night, Tori and her mom were eating dinner. Tori asked her mom if she could try the medal. Her mom said yes, so Tori put the medal in her mouth.

Suddenly, a loud thunder boomed and a bright lightning flashed. Sara and Lily were scared. They wanted to get out of the bathtub and run to their mom. But they were too late. The lightning hit the bathtub and made a big spark. Sara and Lily felt a shock and fell down. They did not move or make a sound.

The end.
Once upon a time there was a great boat. The boat sailed over the bright blue sea. The sky was big and blue.

So instead, he took the bottle and put it carefully in a special box. He told everyone that he had found a special magical bottle and he showed it off whenever he could. But no one understood the true power of the bottle and they just laughed at the foolish old man.

"Thank you, my dears. You are very sweet. But next time, please don't pass the celery to me. Pass it to someone who likes it. Like Lily. Or the rabbit," she said.
Lily liked to play with her mom's makeup. She liked to put red on her lips and blue on her eyes. She liked to look at herself in the mirror and smile. She felt like a princess.

When it started to snow, Timmy and his friends all went outside to play. Timmy's mittens kept his hands nice and warm. He scooped up chunks of snow and made snow angels. Then he built a snowman. Timmy was so happy, his mittens definitely kept him warm.

The little girl was so happy that she brought the sunflower back home with her. Every day she would step out of her room and look at the sunflower, remembering her special day in the sun.
Once upon a time, there was a modest page, who lived all alone. Each day, the page would do small tasks, such as sweeping the floor and tidying his room. But one day, he found something strange - a big, old key. He wondered what it could unlock. He put the key in the door and turned it. To his surprise, the door opened, and behind it was a secret garden! The page was filled with delight! He began to explore the garden, and found that it was full of all kinds of wonderful things - trees, flowers, butterflies and other animals! The page patted them all, and thanked the garden for being so kind to him. The garden healed the page's loneliness, and he stayed there every day, enjoying its company. He had finally unlocked a whole new world!
Once upon a time, there was a man named Joe. He was very hungry and he came upon a creek of wet water. In his hunger, Joe decided to drink from the creek, but it had no healing powers, and soon Joe got very sick.

He asked the building, "Will you marry me?"
The building looked at him and said, "No way!"

One day, he was walking near the beach when he saw something glittering in the sand. He picked it up and saw that it was a fork! He was so excited that he started to run back home.

Then, she put the lung in the basin. Angie started to wash it. She rubbed and scrubbed and swirled until it was all nice and clean. She was very happy with her work.

Jane reluctantly said: "I surrender!" She picked up her kitten, ran back to the house and realized she had been very foolish. She learnt a valuable lesson that day - that the ground was for exploring, but only when she had permission from mom!
Once upon a time, there were two friends, Jack and Jill. They were always so helpful to each other, and loved spending time together.

The little girl started to cry. She told him that she had lost her favourite bird. The dinosaur said he was sorry and asked her if there was anything he could do to help.

So, Jane ran to the garage to see her Daddy. When she asked Daddy for help, he smiled and said, "Of course I can help you fix it. Let's get to work!"

Lily nodded and took her mom's hand. She was still excited to see the animals, but she decided to never use the toilet at the zoo again.
Tom and Mia like to dig in the dirt. They have a big bucket and some spoons. They pretend they are looking for treasure. Sometimes they find rocks, shells, or worms.

"This is not fun, this is boring," Tom said.

Lily and Ben took her hand and led her to the sofa. They moved the sofa and showed her the card. "Ta-da! We made this for you! We love you, Mom!" they said.

A big dragon came out of the hole. He was very friendly. "Well, hello there! What are you curious about?" he asked.

The teacher looked at Max. She said, "Max, that was very bad. You should not be a tutor. You should be sorry. You need to say sorry to Lily and share your truck."

One day, her mommy and daddy offered her a special surprise. They offered to take her on a trip. She was so excited. 

Max was scared and wanted to leave but he was curious, so he stepped closer. Then, he saw another fierce big cat come out of the lake. The cat said, “I am Ty the Water Cat. I live underwater. Come with me, Max.�

Lily learned that being sad and crying can make things become worse. She promised herself to always try to be happy, even when things are hard.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved cookies more than anything in the world. One day, Lily's mom made some cookies for her, but she couldn't find them anywhere. She looked under the bed, in the closet, and even in the toy box, but the cookies were nowhere to be found.

The little girl was so very glad when she looked around at her special place. The sun shone in the sky and the ornaments glittered in the light. She was glad she could carry the ornaments to the place.

They look at the tree and see a hole. The small animal goes inside the hole.

Lily's mom said, "You can choose one toy, Lily." Lily looked around and saw a beautiful doll. She said, "I choose this doll, mommy!" 

Caroline smiled back and said, “Yes!�
One day, Grandma wanted to take her grandchild for a walk. She was so excited to spend time with them.

So, Mia, Buddy, and Tim walked through the maze. They turned left, they turned right, and they went straight. Soon, they saw the exit of the maze. Tim was not angry anymore. He was very happy. They all left the maze and played together in the park.
Once upon a time, in a tidy little town, there lived a cat named Max. Max liked to play and run all day. One day, Max saw a big ball, and he wanted to play with it. But the ball belonged to a dog named Sam. Sam did not like Max and did not want to share his ball.

Joe smiled. He was glad he remembered what his mom said. He remembered that if he was brave and kind, he could make new friends. 

One day, Alex and his mom decided to go to the park. As they got there, he saw many children playing and having fun. He was excited and asked his mom if he could join them. 

The boy nervously stumbled outside to join his friends. He felt safe when he saw them smiling at him. Even though he was still a little scared, he tried his best to remember what Mama said. He knew he was going to have fun.

So the old man and the girl went into the mine. But soon, the girl became scared because it was dark and things felt dead in the mine. The old man said, “It’s okay, don’t worry. Keep going.�

Mum and her son cleaned the house together. When they were done, the house was sparkling and smelled fresh. 

The farmer was so happy with his purchase. He now had a truly special barn, better than ever before. And so, the farmer and the diamond lived happily ever after.
Once upon a time there was a boy named Frank. Frank loved to play with his sock. He thought it was so fun to throw the sock in the air and catch it. One day, Frank jumped into his garden and decided to play forever. He threw the sock up as high as he could and ran to catch it. He ran so fast that, poof! The sock disappeared.

The tree said, "No, no. Don't be sorry. Let me show you what happened." 

Tom and Lily were scared and sad. They wanted their bag back. They shouted at the dog, but it did not listen. It was too fast and too far.

That night Jimmy had a plan. He wanted to go to the mountain and his mom wasn’t going to stop him. He was careful to not make too much noise as he snuck out of the house. 

Later that night, Lily started to feel sick. Her tummy hurt and she didn't feel good. Her mom asked her, "Did you eat the bad apple?" Lily said, "Yes, but it tasted good." Her mom hugged her and said, "I'm sorry, sweetie. We should have thrown it away." 

"Yes, Mom! I've been studying every night," replied Timmy. 

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan wanted to do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Joan still wanted to play. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Willow felt helpless. The wind blew her over and she was never seen again. And the little sunflower never made any more friends.
Once upon a time there was a nosy dragon named Dina. Dina loved to act silly and make everyone laugh. She wanted her friends to have fun!

Tom looked at Lily's bird and felt envious. He wanted to have a bird too. He asked Lily, "Can I have your bird?"

"Why did you do that, bear? Why did you hurt Lily? She was nice to you. She was rare. You are bad. You are mean. Go away, bear. Go away!"

"Mama, mama! I saw a lion!" Lily said.

Bob was still scared but he thought it sounded fun. So he slowly opened his eyes and gave the Ghost a big squeeze. 

It was a happy day for the family and ever since, the boy and his family have been returning to the garden to explore and play.
John was playing hockey in the park. He was whacking the puck around and having a lot of fun. But then he noticed it was getting gloomy outside, and he got a bit sad. He sighed and put away his hockey stick and skates, and went home.

One day, Anna and Ben want to play with Elly at the same time. They both grab his nose and pull. Elly makes a loud noise. He does not like it. Anna and Ben struggle. They do not want to share.

The man smiled and said, "Well done! Now, any time you need someone to talk to, just look up and pray."

Then one day, she decided to make a decision. She wanted to be happy and healthy. 

Lily giggled and said, "No peeking, Timmy!" 

Billy grinned. He had gained a new friend today.
Once upon a time, there was a modest little radish. She was happily walking around in the garden, when she came across a big, dark bush. It made her feel a bit scared. She looked around for help but there was no one there. Suddenly, she heard a voice.

Sarah had made a mistake. She had believed one lie, and it had been a very bitter lesson.

But soon she began to get worried. She had been riding the scooter for a while now and it didn’t seem to be ending. Diana looked left and right as far as she could, but all she could see were trees and grass. She was lost.

"Where are you going?!" shouted his dad.

He saw a friend of his and called out to her. "Look what I did!" he shouted. She looked impressed, and said"That's really interesting Luke!" Luke smiled proudly, and stayed playing with the mist a little longer before going back home.
Andy was a little boy. He saw a task and was eager to try it. He wanted to discover something new. So, he started working on the task. 

His mommy came up and said, smiling, "That's right, Tommy. That's a motor. It helps us move around."

Her mom smiled and took the toys. She put the drum around her neck and the trumpet in her mouth. Lily followed her and pretended to salute. They started to march around the waiting room, making loud noises. "Boom, boom, boom! Toot, toot, toot!" they shouted.

Mama and Papa never forgot the family's open arms that greeted them. Whenever they met someone, they showed an open heart. Their plan always working out, they knew by showing kindness they would always find the right pupil. 

One day, while Mike was playing, his dad noticed and came to talk to him.

"Maybe in the tree," Ben says.

But to its disappointment, the other circle didn't feel the same. It said, "Go away! I don't want to be your friend!"

<INSTRUCTION> What were the two sisters doing? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> The two sisters were having so much fun until they heard a loud noise. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Max was so happy that he could play with his friends without pain. He learned that sometimes, it was good to slow down and listen to his body. And Max and his friends played happily in the park ever after.
One day, a fast driver named Tim went for a ride in his loud car. He loved to speed down the street and feel the wind in his hair. As he drove, he saw his friend, Sam, standing by the road.

Then, all of a sudden, the boy felt himself trip! He had been so careless, he couldn’t keep his footing. He had been running too fast and too far, with too much weight in his hands. The weight had been too heavy for him, and as he fell, he knew that he had gone much too far. Now it was time to turn around and run back home.
Once upon a time there was a coat frame. It was fit for a special occasion. A little girl named Rachel came to try it on.

Suddenly, the bad guy the cop was looking for appeared. He snatched Lily's backpack and ran away. The cop tried to catch him, but he was too fast. Lily was sad and cried even more. She wondered why the bad guy would take her backpack.
Once upon a time, there was a boy named Timmy. He loved to draw with his markers, but one day he accidentally spilled ink all over his paper. He was sad because he thought he spoiled his picture. 

After a while, the soup was ready. The boy was very happy!

Lily and Ben felt sorry. They did not want to make Lily's mom angry. They said, "We're sorry, mom. We won't fight again."

The girl smiled and nodded. They both sat on the rock together and enjoyed some fun games. 

The boy said, "King, don't be sad. I will help you find your toy." They looked in the big room and the small room. They looked under the bed and in the toy box.

The playground attendant came over to explain that the side was broken and he was fixing it. But the little girl was not happy. She kept complaining and the attendant gave her an idea.

Lily was sad and scared. She did not want to make her mom unhappy. She loved her mom. But she also did not want to eat meat. She hated meat. She said, "Mom, I am sorry. I do not mean to be stubborn and rude. But I really do not like meat. It makes me feel bad. Can we please have something else?"

Their mom heard them and came to the attic. She saw the ripped skirt and the sad girls. She hugged them and said, "Why did you fight over the skirt? You are best friends. You should share and be kind to each other."

"I don't know, Lily. Maybe it's carrying toys like yours," replied her dad.

After her first lesson, Sarah realized that she had had lots and lots of fun. She was already looking forward to the next lesson - and showing off her medal!
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Susie. She was very silly, and she loved to have fun. Every day, Susie would jump around and giggle.

Lulu couldn't wait to have her very own microscope!
Once upon a time, there was a small boy. He was three years old, and he loved to explore.

Mom told Tim and Sue to stop the quarrel. She said they could play with both the toy car and the toy doll. Tim and Sue stopped fighting and started to play together. They had fun and forgot about the boring television. They learned to share and be happy together.
Once upon a time, there was a cat named Tom. Tom liked to be organized. He had a shop where he would sell ties. Every day, he would put his ties in nice rows on a table.

The little boy looked up and saw a giant basket hanging from the ceiling. Inside were all the delicious treats any little boy could ever want! 

But Tom was curious and did not listen to Sue. He walked to the edge of the pit and leaned over to examine it. He wanted to see if there was anything shiny or fun or cool.

Mama looked relieved. "Thank you, Daddy," she said.

So, Max started to sniff around and found the tape under a bench. He picked it up with his mouth and brought it back to the little girl. 

Mommy smiled and said, "That's a ladder, Emma. Ladders help people go from one place to another."

Days went by, and the fox did not return the tea. The rabbit felt sad, but he did not say anything. One day, the fox needed help from the rabbit. The rabbit thought about the selfish fox and the tea he did not return. He decided to teach the fox a lesson.

"No, it's mine!" Tom says. He does not want to share his truck. He thinks the doll is boring and ugly.

Kitty was sad, and she did not like the bad ending. She wished she had been good and listened to her friends.
One day, a little boy named Tim wanted to watch his favorite show on the television. Tim was very calm as he sat on the floor in front of the television. He waited for his show to start.

His mom smiled. "Ok, James, let's go."

The game of pinching coins was such fun! Charlie and the girl played until the sun went down. From then on, the two were the best of friends.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl who had a bag. She was excited and wanted to finish her adventure with the bag.

They found some paper and crayons, and Timmy started to color his car. But then, his little sister wanted to play with the car too. Timmy didn't want to share his toy, but his mom reminded him that it's important to help others and share our things. So, Timmy let his sister play with the car too and they had fun coloring it together.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She had a unique teddy bear that she loved very much. One day, Lily decided to have a tea party with her teddy bear and her friends. She asked her mommy to serve them some juice and cookies.

"Now!" Rani shouted. She and Lila threw their spears again. This time, they hit the rabbit and it fell to the ground.

They watch the sunrise for a long time. They feel happy and warm. They talk and laugh and sing.

Andrew was overjoyed. He clapped his hands, and the bird whistled louder and louder. Andrew smiled and said "Thank you for the beautiful song!" The bird smiled back, and flew away with a final happy whistle.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Amy. One day she went to the park with her mom. 

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan wanted to do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Joan still wanted to play. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

One day, they saw a big dog in the park. It was black and furry and had sharp teeth. It barked loud and ran after them. Sam and Jen were scared. They tried to get away, but the dog was faster. It caught up with Sam and bit his car. The car broke into pieces and stopped zooming. Sam cried and dropped his car. Jen stopped her bike and ran to him.

Finally, the wind came back, and the sailor continued to sail around the lake. He was so happy and never wanted the day to end.
Once upon a time, there was a naughty boy named James. He had big, blue eyes that twinkled in the sunshine.

Lily realized that she was wrong to insist on playing with her friend's toy. She went back to her friend's house and apologized. Her friend forgave her, and they played together happily. Lily learned that it's important to be kind and respectful to others, and not to insist on things that don't belong to her.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to draw and color pictures of flowers and animals. She had a special folder where she kept all her artwork safe.

He pushed some pieces and broke the puzzle. Lily cried. She said, "You are mean, Max. You ruined my puzzle. I don't want to play with you."

One day, the rabbit wanted to see how far he could run. He ran and ran for a long time. He was so happy that he was getting faster and faster.

Amy was happy. She had used the right word and it had worked out for her. She was so proud of herself.
One day, two kids were playing at the park. They wanted to do something special and unusual.

He pushes Sam to the ground and runs away with the gun. Sam cries and Ben runs to help him.

"I love you too, Anna. You are a good sister. Let's play with our snowman some more," he said.

"Yes, please. Can I hold her?" Tom says.

Meg went on the stage and sang and danced. Everyone clapped and cheered for her. Meg loved it so much. She had made her request come true!
Once upon a time, there was a brilliant city. It had huge buildings, high towers and many roads. Everywhere people looked, the city sparkled. 
One day the people of the city decided to have a big party. Everyone was so excited with the plans. They had so much fun planning. 
On the day of the party, the city was splendid. Everyone was having a great time. The sun was shining and the music was loud. They danced and sang all day long.
Finally, the day had to end. As the sun was setting, the people said goodbye and hugged each other tightly. They said they would remember the brilliant city and all the fun they had there. 
The people of the city were very happy. They had made so many memories that day. The brilliant city was beautiful and their day had been perfect.
Sam had a pocket. It was a useful pocket. Whenever Sam needed something, he would reach into his pocket and get it.

“No, I can do it,� said Shauna. 

They crawled into the igloo. It was cozy and warm. They smiled at each other.

Lily and Ben nodded. They agreed. They learned their lesson. They did not want to mail themselves again. They wanted to stay with mom and dad. They loved them very much.
Ben and Lily were playing in the park. They liked to slide, swing and run. But they also liked to search for things. They searched for bugs, flowers and rocks. Sometimes they found something special, like a shiny coin or a feather.

When the bear was done, he thanked the mouse for the delicious snack.

The boy said, "I lost my ball and now I can't play."

So, Timmy and his friends used their dragon fire to help put out the fire and save the castle. The people in the castle were very happy and thanked Timmy and his friends for their help. 

Every day, Bob wore the yellow feather and felt brave. He was no longer scared to explore the world. He had his yellow feather to protect him.
Once upon a time, there was a girl called Sam. She was 3 years old and loved to play with her toys. One day, she wanted to play a game with her toys. She made a score so she could remember who was winning. But then something unknown happened. All of a sudden, the score disappeared! Sam was very sad and couldn't remember who was winning the game.

"Hello, doggy!" Sara says. "Do you want to play with us?"

Joy loved going on the ocean and ignored her parents warning. She hopped on her yacht and began to sail. The ocean was so peaceful that Joy forgot about the freezing warning. 

"Yes, I am," the fairy replied. "My name is Lily. I live in the big tree over there. I saw you playing with your doll and I wanted to say hello."

"Please, dragon Fluffy," Ashley said, "Please show me your magic!"

One day, Lucy found a white box in her garden. She was curious and opened it. Inside was a beautiful, peaceful bird. It was so calm and gentle. Lucy got to understand that the bird wanted her to take care of it.

Suddenly, a voice came from behind. It was Jack's friend, Lucy the bird.

When everyone arrived, Julie started to tell her story. Everyone was so excited to hear it. After Julie finished the story, everyone clapped their hands and said it was a great story.

"Let's build a treehouse!" said Dad. 

When they got to the park, Timmy saw a big, white goat. He asked his mom if he could pet the goat. His mom said yes because the goat looked harmless. Timmy petted the goat and the goat licked his hand. Timmy giggled and said, "The goat is silly!"

The dolphin decided to explore this special place. He swam around and looked at all the amazing things in the ocean. He could see colourful fish and coral in the warm water. 

After the jeweler restored the gem, Lily was so excited to have her special gem back. She knew it was valuable and she would always treasure it.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to play outside in the snow. One day, Lily went outside to play, but she forgot her mittens. Her hands were cold and she couldn't play for long.

When she was done, the girl felt great. Her visit to the park was successful. She put her brush back in her bag and went home. She was happy to have gone to the park. 

Emma understood and said, "I'm sorry mommy." Then she walked away, feeling guilty for making a mistake.

Lily smiled and they started to play together. They played on the slide, swings and monkey bars. They had so much fun that they didn't even notice the time passing.

One day, something surprised him. He saw a little fish jump out of the water. It was so brave! Frog was very impressed.

Jenny had lots of fun that day, and she told all her friends in the village about her dive. She was looking forward to her next dive in the river.
Once upon a time, there were two best friends. Their names were Sally and Jack. One day, Sally mentioned to Jack that she wanted to make something special. She said that she wanted to make something out of glue.

Then, it was time for the big surprise. The grown-ups told the kids to look up at the sky. There, they saw something amazing. It was a firework! The firework was very pretty and made the kids say "wow!" The firework was all the colors of the rainbow.

Lily hears Tom and looks up. She sees the skeleton too and is scared. She lets go of the rock and falls down. She lands on the grass and starts to cry. She is hurt. She has a cut on her knee and it bleeds. Tom sees Lily and feels bad. He climbs down the rock and runs to her. He says, "Lily, I'm sorry. Are you okay?"

Molly took a deep breath and tried her very best to be calm. The dad had something important to tell her.

The farmer chuckled and said, "That's ok. We'll just call it your neck wire. You look so fancy with it."

One day, Anna and her mom are making a chocolate cake for dad's birthday. Mom lets Anna choose the decorations. Anna decides to use sprinkles, candles, and a big star. She thinks it will look impressive. She tells mom, "Dad will love our cake. It will be the best cake ever."

They smiled and said, "Thank you, mom. You are right. We are lucky to have each other. We can share and make anything together."

The huge elephant felt bad for the other and said, "You can mark a line too and make this space your own. Together we can create something big". So the two elephants worked together and even though the huge elephant's line was much bigger, the other elephant's line was right next to it, marking the same space.

His dad said, “Let’s take you to the doctor to check your foot.�

He took her to his office. He showed her a new book and a new pen. They were bigger and brighter than her old ones. He said, "I saw how much you like to write, so I got these for you. You can write anything you want."

Just then, Julia felt a sharp bite on her arm. She looked down and saw a tiny yellow snake.

The dog came to Tim and they played in the snow. They ran and jumped and had a lot of fun. But then, the dog started to get mad. It growled and showed its teeth. Tim got scared and tried to run away.

He chased the frog around the yard but it was too fast. Sam was sad and shouted to Mommy: "Where is the frog going?"

The coach and his dad helped him up and said, "Don't worry, Sam, it's okay. Golf is hard and you need to practice a lot. You are doing great for your age. Just keep studying and trying and you will get better."

Now she knew that big stones are too heavy to pick up and that it's not okay to eat them. She was glad her mom had been there to prevent her from trying.
Once upon a time there was a fat cat who wanted to get inside the chimney. The cat had never been inside and was very excited. She scratched at the door, but it wouldn't open.

"Playing with batteries is dangerous," warned the owl. "It's better to share love than to play with things that could hurt you. Why not hop around and find some friends?"

Luckily, a friendly farmer saw the commotion and helped Billy open the gate. Spot was reunited with Billy and they continued on their walk, hand in hand.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy called Jack. Jack was three years old. He wanted to go out and have some fun. 

"Stop, Lily! What are you doing with that needle?" Mom said.

He tells her they will never go near the bull again. He tells her the bull is very bad. He tells her he will find a new home for him.

Mum asked: "What do you have to say?".

"Maybe it has candy or a new toy," Lily said.

Suddenly, Timmy's mommy and daddy realized that they had accidentally taken the wrong suitcase. They had to go back to the check-in counter to find their own suitcase. Timmy was left alone with the crying little girl. He didn't know what to do, but he knew he had to help her. So, he took her hand and they walked around the airport together, looking for her mommy and daddy. Eventually, they found them and the little girl was reunited with her family. Timmy felt proud that he was able to help someone in need.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to eat yummy cookies. Every day, her mom would bake a fresh batch of cookies for her to eat. Lily loved the way the cookies tasted.

She took the mirror and went to her mom. She said, "Mom, I'm sorry, I tried to fix your mirror. I wanted to make you happy. But I couldn't. It's still broken. Please don't be mad at me." Her mom looked at the mirror and at Anna. She did not smile. She did not hug her. She said, "Anna, this is worse than before. You made a bigger mess. You ruined my mirror. You can't fix what you broke. You have to stay in your room for the rest of the day. And don't touch anything else." She took the mirror and threw it in the trash.

The little girl looked up at the man and said, "Yes! You belong here with us!" The man smiled and thanked the girl. He played with the animals and felt like he belonged in this fun, spicy place.
Once upon a time there was a nice little girl. She loved to run and laugh and explore. 

But Spot did not see a big hole in the ground. He fell into the hole with the ball and the toy. Sue was sad because she could not get Spot out of the hole. The town people tried to help, but they could not get Spot out either. In the end, Spot stayed in the hole and everyone was sad.
Once upon a time, there was a big, red box. The box was very special because it could fill up with anything you wanted. One day, a little boy named Tim found the box while playing outside.

"Brrr, it's very cold, Max," Lily said. She shivered and hugged her brother. "The thermometer says it's minus five."

The next day Danny was ready to go. He put on his special red shirt and couldn't stop smiling as he waited for his parents to finish getting ready.

From that day on, Lily always ate her vegetables with her lovely bowl of rice.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved cake, especially chocolate cake with sprinkles on top. One day, Lily's mom needed to bake a cake for her friend's birthday party. 

"Look, Tom, these blocks are different!" Lily says. "They have symbols. What do they mean?"

The next morning, the baby woke up and ran to her mommy. "Where is my surprise?" she asked.

One day, Tom saw a new horse at the farm. It was black and shiny and had a long mane. Tom wanted to ride the new horse. He asked the farmer, "Can I ride that horse?"

<INSTRUCTION> What were the two sisters doing? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> The two sisters were having so much fun until they heard a loud noise. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

They did not know that they were in big trouble.

The monster was very sad. He tried to be good, but he didn't know how. So he kept doing naughty things, which made his parents even angrier.

"Help! Help! Where is my crown?" he shouted.

Mittens didn't know what to do, so she ran to her owner, a little girl named Lily. Lily saw the mess in the attic and started to help Mittens gather the yarn. They worked together and soon the attic was clean again. 

One night, a dark storm came and all the plants got wet from the rain. When morning came, Sarah looked in the garden and saw that a dark plant was missing. She gasped and asked her mom, 
"Mommy, why is one of my plants gone?" 
Her mom said sadly, 
"Oh sweetie, sometimes things get lost during a storm. You will have to learn to accept that you lost it."

"Sorry, Ben. I was wrong too. We can share the box." Lily said.

The Painter: "I'm painting the walls! Would you like to help?"

Voice: "It's me! I'm an old scarecrow!"

He grabbed the lid and twisted it hard. But it did not move. He twisted it again and again, but it was too tight. He felt his hand hurt.

"It's so cold," said Bobby, as he felt the cold air on his face. 

Suddenly, Sandy saw a butterfly fluttering in the sky. She was mesmerized. She started to walk towards it when her mommy yelled "wait, Sandy!"

They cleaned up the kitchen with mom and then went to the store. They got their ice cream and enjoyed it outside. They forgot about the burnt cake and were happy again.
Lily was a little girl who liked to play with her dolls. She had many dolls, but her favorite was Anna, who had long hair and a pink dress. Lily always took Anna with her when she went outside.

Molly smiled and hugged her dad. She knew that she should always ask permission before doing something, and that it was always a good idea to do what was right.
Once upon a time there was a little girl called Sabrina. She was a very cheerful girl, who liked playing and smiling with her friends.

There was a big green frog under the table. It had red eyes and a long tongue. It croaked and looked at them.

She was having so much fun that she did not hear her mom calling her name. She did not notice that one of the things she took out of the purse was a small envelope. She did not see that the envelope had a sticker that said "Do not open until your birthday".

One day, Lily and her bunny went to the park. They played all day. They played in the sand and on the swings. The sun was going down and it was time to go home. But when Lily looked for her bunny, it was not there. She had lost her bunny.

Sara was left alone. She felt sorry and lonely. She did not mean to hurt Ben or his doll. She was just afraid of stitches.

One day, Lily entered a drawing contest at school. She worked very hard on her drawing and was proud of it. When the judges announced the winner, Lily's name was called! Everyone applauded and cheered for her.

"I found this heel and was curious," Abigail said.

The big lizard met a small cat. The cat said, "I can help you change. But, you must give me your nice house." The big lizard agreed and gave the cat his house. 

Anna added more colors. She made green, orange, and yellow. Her rainbow was brilliant and bright. She showed her friends her rainbow. They loved the sight too. They all clapped and cheered for Anna.
Once upon a time, in a small house, there was a boy named Tom. Tom loved to eat food with pepper. One day, Tom's mom made a perfect soup for lunch. Tom was very happy and wanted to eat the soup.

Lily's mom helped her find a funny frame with lots of colors. As they were putting the picture in the frame, Lily accidentally cut her finger with the scissors. 

The two friends were scared. They backed away slowly. The card kept rising until it stopped moving.

"Hello, little bird," said Bongo. "What's wrong?"

Mommy said this parade was special because everyone was wearing super fancy clothes. Mommy said the clothes were so special and expensive. I couldn't believe it!

His mom laughed and said, "It's called frozen yogurt, not ice cream. It's good for you!" Tyler couldn't help but giggle too. Then he set the frozen yogurt off to the side and decided to wait for some real ice cream.
One day, three year old Molly was marching around her house. She marched up and down the stairs and zigzagged her way through the hallway. After a few minutes, Molly was breathing heavily and ready to rest.

Lily asked her mom if she could help set the table. Her mom said yes, so Lily put the forks and spoons on the table. Then, she saw her dad coming home from work. He was wearing his ordinary suit. 

She quickly ran to a nearby tree and she started to stand still. Everyone around Abigail was standing still, too. Abigail was so scared that she started to cry. But then, she remembered what her parents had told her about earthquakes. Stay still and wait until the shaking stops.

But mom is not ignorant. She is smart and angry. She follows them to their room. She sees their toys and their dirty clothes. She takes away their toys and puts them in a closet. She says, "No more sport or toys for you until you clean. You are being naughty and rude. You need to learn to listen and respect. Now go to the bathroom and take a shower. And don't come out until you are clean!"

So, Jack and Jill went to the market first and filled their baskets with amazing fruit and vegetables for their meal. After that, they went to the park together and played for hours. They laughed, swung from the swings and skipped rope together. 

One day he came home from playing and forgot to change his socks. His mom saw that he was still wearing his muddy blue socks and said, "You must put these away now!"

Tommy felt better, so he went back to playing in the garden. The end.
Once there was a kangaroo who was working in her garden bed. She was feeling uncomfortable and when she looked up, she saw a little boy standing there. He smiled at the kangaroo and he nodded his head. The kangaroo wasn't sure what the boy wanted, so she nodded her head too. 

Lily pulled it out and saw that it was her triangle! She was so happy that she found it. From that day on, Lily was never troubled again. She played with her triangle every day and always kept it close to her. And when she saw puddles, she would smile and remember how she found her toy.
Once upon a time, in a peaceful town, there lived a little boy named Tim. Tim loved to run and play outside. One day, Tim saw a race in the park. He was excited and wanted to join the race.

Tom thought about what Lily said. He realized that she was right. He said, "I'm sorry, Lily, you are very smart. I will load less sand and share the boards with you. Can we still be friends?"

The little sack was so excited! It wanted the oat, but it didn't have enough money. The man smiled and said, "I'll give you the oat for free if you can carry it all the way home." 

Timmy walked towards the door and opened it. Inside, he saw a big monster! The monster was very angry and started to chase Timmy. Timmy ran as fast as he could, trying to find a place to hide. He ran back into the empty chamber and closed the door behind him. 

That sounded exciting! Margaret decided to try her own animal trap. She got a box and placed it outside, putting some food inside.

The duck agreed, "Yes, let's do that. It will be easy and fun!" They went to find things to make the bridge pretty. They found flowers, leaves, and sticks. The bunny and the duck were very excited.

Just then, she saw a friendly squirrel. The squirrel said to her, "Why don't you try leaning on me? Together we can reach the top of the tree.

But then, they heard a loud roar. It sounded like a big, scary animal. Lily and Ben stopped and looked around. They saw nothing.

Finally, Lily's mom found the key under a bush. Lily was so happy and thanked her mom. Her mom said, "Always be careful and watch where you're walking so you don't stumble again."
Once upon a time, there was a little birdie named Tweety. Tweety loved to fly around and sing pretty songs. One day, Tweety saw a shiny triangle in the sky. It was so smooth and pretty, Tweety wanted to touch it.

They go near the truck. They see a man. The man is holding a palm. The palm is green and tall. The man is putting the palm in the truck.

The rabbit replied, "I don't know, but it looks like it could be fun to play with."

On the way she saw a quiet pond and decided to sit by it. She sat there for a long while and listened to the peacefulness.

As he kept walking, he started to come across different kinds of bugs. Some of the bugs were green and some were yellow. He was so delighted to see all the colorful bugs playing around in the grass! 

"It is my car!" Ben says.

The friends were astounded and stopped in their tracks. "What is this, what happened?" asked the first friend. His companion replied excitedly, "It looks like a piece of history, a bright one!"

At the end of the day, Ben was so happy that he thanked his mum for the wonderful adventure. His mum smiled at him and said, "It's all thanks to the map!"
Once upon a time, there was an old man called Grandpa Bob. Grandpa Bob liked to go for walks in the forest. One day, he noticed something shiny on the ground. He bent down and picked it up. It was an old spear. Grandpa Bob wondered how it got there.

He turned to his mom, "Mommy, what is that?" he asked.

Her mom smiled and said, "Yes, it's very pretty. But don't forget, we are here to collect leaves for your art project." Lily nodded and continued to search for leaves. 

They both laid back and watched the fluffy clouds float by above them. Jane smiled and said, "This gazing is so much fun!" Her mom agreed and said, "Yes, it is!"
Once upon a time there was a boy called Jack. He was very adventurous. One day Jack wanted to borrow something, so he asked his mom if he could borrow a lawn. She said yes and gave him a nice lawn to play with. Jack was so excited to have the lawn!

The teacher is happy. She says, "You are welcome, Anna and Ben. I am proud of you. You are brave. You can do anything if you try. Now, let's take the test. You will do great!"

"Let's go closer and find out!" Tom said. "Maybe we can take some rocks and make a necklace!"

The puppy's owner was surprised when he saw the bone. He kneeled down to take a closer look. "It looks like it's a very dry old bone. Where did you find it?" he asked the puppy.

Finally, they reached the top of the hill. They were so happy and enjoyed the view. They all laughed and hugged each other. 

John and Jane hugged each other and promised to always listen to each other even when things got tough.
Once upon a time there was a happy boy. He loved to explore the world around him. One day he was looking around his backyard and saw a frog. He wanted to take a closer look. So, he bent down to examine it. 

Lily and the farmer took Dotty to the water. They used soap and a big brush to clean her. Dotty liked the bath and soon she was clean and shiny. Lily said, "Wow, Dotty, you look so pretty now!"

They pick up their ball. They hurry to their mom. They tell her about the fox. They hope they will see him again. They hope he will be their friend.
Lila was a princess who lived in a big palace. She had many toys and dresses and books, but she was not happy. She wanted to go outside and play with other children, but her father, the king, said no. He said it was too dangerous and she had to stay inside.

Mom smiles and hugs them. She is glad they learned their lesson. She hopes they will remember to be kind and generous. She hopes they will touch everything with love. She hopes they will make their grandpa happy. She tells them she loves them. They tell her they love her too. They are a happy family.
Lila loved to sing. She sang every day, in her room, in the garden, in the car. She sang happy songs, sad songs, silly songs. She sang with her voice, with her toys, with her hands. She sang because it made her feel good.

Lily said, "OK, Mom. I will say sorry and pay. And I will be more careful. I don't want to get hurt or lose you again."

One day, Josh asked Ann if he could help her open her present. But Ann said no because she wanted to do it by herself. Josh felt a bit sad and he asked why. 

One day, Martin and Ellen were playing together in the garden. But something happened that made them both very sad.

"Oh no!" Lily cried. "My paint spilled all over my desk!"

One day, Lily and Snowy went to the park. They saw many other children and animals. Lily wanted to play with them, but Snowy was shy. She hid under a bench and did not come out.

They heard mum calling them. It was getting dark. They ran back to the tent. They ate their snacks and turned on the flashlight. They told each other stories and jokes. They felt cozy and safe in the tent. They fell asleep, dreaming of birds and stars.
Lila was lonely. She had no friends to play with. She liked to draw squares on the paper, but she wished she had someone to share them with.

Anna and Ben run after Spot. They call his name and try to catch him. But Spot is too fast and he runs into the street. Anna and Ben stop at the edge of the sidewalk. They see a car coming towards Spot. They are very scared. They scream, "Spot, stop!"

Tom and Mia are scared. They say, "We are sorry, police man. We just wanted to have fun. We did not know we could not play in the puddle."

One day, he went to the park with his mom. He saw a big ice cream truck. He ran to it and asked for a cone. The man gave him a cone with three scoops: chocolate, vanilla and strawberry. Tommy was very happy. He thanked the man and paid with his mom's money.

"Well, I had to throw it away. It was getting old and didn't look very good," her mom explained. 

Lily was so happy to hear that her grandma was coming to visit. But then, she remembered that her room was messy. She didn't want her grandma to see it like that. So, she asked her mommy for help to clean it up.

The robot is curious. It says, "Yes, I want to play a game. What game?"

Ann was very sad. She didn't want to play anymore.

She gave the nut to Tom and he tried to put it on the bike. But it was too hard. The nut was too small and the wheel was too big. Tom felt sad and angry.

"Go away, dog!" she shouts. "Leave the rabbit alone! You are a bad dog. You are a noisy dog."

They sailed back to shore, and the little boy felt so brave. He could hardly wait to tell his friends. They had gone on an adventure and rocked on the big white sail. What an adventure!
Once upon a time, there was a modern band. The band made really cool music. All of the people in the town enjoyed listening to the band's music.

Lily and Tom say, "The game is called hide and seek. You hide, and we seek. We count to ten, and you find a good spot. Then we look for you. Do you know how to play?"

One day, the sun shone down and made the leaves of the plant flutter in the breeze. The plant was happy. It started to grow again, higher and higher. Soon it was taller than the other plants in the garden!

Lily was not sad anymore. She said, "Thank you, Tom, for helping me organize my room! Now we can play with my toys!" Tom smiled and said, "You're welcome, Lily! Let's have fun!"

Lisa kissed her son. She looked at the clock. She was late. She had to go to court. She had to fix her papers and books. She had to call her boss and explain what happened. She had to hope that the judge and the man who was hurt would understand.

Jack looked at the cold jacket and made a silent promise that he would never forget Daddy. He knew that no matter where he moved, he would always remember.
Once, there was a little girl who loved to go to the playground. She would smile and laugh as she swung on the swing. One day, she happily went to the playground again.

One day, she saw a new blouse in the closet. It was pink and had flowers on it. Lila wanted to try it on, but it was too high for her to reach. She saw a chair near the closet and had an idea. She pushed the chair to the closet and climbed on it. She reached for the blouse and pulled it down.

Kari was jealous. She wanted to play with the blocks, too. She began to cry.

"Because there is too much traffic, honey. Sometimes there are too many cars on the road and they make a big jam. We have to wait until the jam clears," mom said.

So Pete got in the tub and played in the bubbles. He felt so relaxed and happy. After his bath, he was ready to go to bed.

The little boy realized that the branch had broken from the rapidly rising waters. Thomas now understood why the branch was so broken and he was careful not to touch it again.
Once upon a time, there was a lazy figure who was always looking for ways to relax. One day, he saw a big tree in the distance and decided to take a nap. As he was lying there, a small voice shouted, “Hey! Wake up!�

Then, a boy came over. He had no spade or bucket. He looked at the castle and smiled.

The wise lady was glad to have her coins back and thanked the birds for their kindness. She knew she had been very lucky, and from then on the old lady was always generous to the birds who had helped her.
Once there was a boy named Tom. Tom was three years old. Tom was a very tough boy and he loved exploring his garden. One day while he was playing he suddenly saw something. It was a poppy!

The girl smiled and nodded her head. She ran back to the bedroom and watched the bird carefully. After a while, she was no longer scared. She was happy the bird was harmless!
Once upon a time there was a cat named Muffy. Muffy had a big house to live in.

Billy said, "Timmy, I wish I had a big piece of chicken like you." 

"Look, a frog!" Lily said. "Can we catch it?"

"Wow, look at the rain!" Ben said. "It is so wet and noisy!"

She gets another towel. She wraps it around Tom. She rubs his hair. She rubs his arms. She rubs his legs. She rubs his feet. She is a good friend.

One sunny day, Bluey saw a big cloud coming to the island. He knew the cloud would bring rain. Bluey told his friends, "Rain will come. We need to find a safe place to stay." His friends listened to Bluey and they all looked for a safe place.

So Jane took out a pencil and wrote on the icy crack. Sure enough, it started melting! Jane was able to twist and pull the heel of her shoe free.

"No, it is not a flower. It is something that flies in the sky. It is blue and has wings. What is it?" Lily says.

Benny was scared and started to whistle loudly. All the other birds came to see what was happening. They saw Bob trying to take Benny's feather. Together, they all whistled loudly to scare Bob away. 

Max giggled and said, "Bless you, Lily!"

First, he chose the swing. He sat on it and rocked back and forth. He laughed and smiled as he swung higher and higher in the air. Then he moved to the Sandbox and dug some deep, cool holes with his toy shovel. Once he finished playing in the sand box, he decided to slide down the slide. He slid down and laughed, then got up and did it all over again.

"Hey, you two, what are you doing?" the cop asked. "That was my cop car. I left it here for a minute. Why did you break it?"

Her brother replied, "I love you, sister." 

The duck was so happy that he was rescued by Steve. He thanked Steve for being so perfect and brave. From that moment on, the ducks were close friends. They spent their days at the pond, swimming and having good times together.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Sasha. She loved her mom very much and always did what she asked. One day, Sasha asked mom for a special gift.

The next day Sal invited Joe to come to her house. When Joe arrived, Sal showed her the source of the pill. It was a magic box that made new pills every day. Sal gave Joe a pill as a gift and Joe felt very happy. She no longer felt envious because she now had a pill too.

They sailed on the sea and saw dolphins jumping in the water. Lily was happy and her blouse was pretty in the wind. When they got home, Lily was tired but happy from her fun day on the boat.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Timmy. Timmy loved playing hockey with his friends. One day, Timmy fell down and hurt his knee. He started to cry and his friend Billy came over to comfort him. 

"What are you looking for, Mr. Bird?" asked Lucy excitedly. 

After a long search, they finally arrived. The hero and his friends fought with the monster, and the hero managed to defeat it. Everyone in the village was so grateful to the hero.

So she worked hard to pick up all of the waste and put it back in the tree. Now every day the bird can eat all of the tasty bugs she can find, without having to worry about the big scary cat!
Once upon a time there was a very clean little machine. It was a very special machine that only one person could manage.

"Look at your passport, Anna. It is very pretty. You are a big girl now. I am very proud of you," Mom said.

Finally one day, Tom saw his friends playing up the street. He was so excited! He was about to go and join them, when he remembered something. It was cold outside and he had no jumper.

Mummy and the little girl looked at their work. They were so happy with the colourful new wall. They hugged each other and smiled.
Once upon a time there was a little girl named Lucy who wanted to find out what power was.

"Of course, sweetie. I love you too. Let's pick a story and then you can sleep." her dad said. He put her journal on her nightstand and helped her choose a book. He read to her in a soft voice until she fell asleep. He kissed her forehead and turned off the light. He whispered, "Good night, Sara. You are a wonderful writer."
Lila and Tom were twins who liked to play with their toys. They had many toys because their parents were wealthy and loved them very much. One day, they decided to play a game with their spoons. They wanted to see who could balance a spoon on their nose for the longest time.

He called to a man walking by and asked for help. The man said "No, I don't care. Leave it alone and get away from it." John said "Please help the bird. It needs my help." 

She decided she would repair them and make them as good as new. She made sure to wash them all so they were nice and healthy.

<INSTRUCTION> What Anna and Bella do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Anna and Bella laughed, knowing that the table in the garden was a very special place. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

"No! You will not strike me!"

He thanked the teacher for helping him, and for the rest of the day he stayed focused and did his work. He reminding himself to always keep his pencil close and never to forget it. He had learned an important lesson - that it was important never to lose something important again.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl. She was three years old and knew very few words. One day, she went out to explore the world. As she wandered around outside, she saw all the amazing things the season had to offer.

Later that day, it started to rain. Timmy loved the rain because he could splash in puddles and play with his umbrella. But the rain was also wild, and it made him think about the missile again. He remembered what his mom said and stayed calm.

Tim climbed on the chair and tried to reach the jar again. This time, he could touch it! But, when he tried to grab it, he saw a note. The note said, "License to eat cookies: Mom." Tim felt sad because he did not have a license to eat the cookies.

He loved to feel the wind as it blew his hair and he laughed as he peddled faster and faster. Tony rode his bike until it was time to go home to bed.

He grabbed an old teddy bear and began to spoil it. He cleaned it and made it soft and fluffy again.

When Jack touched the egg, it suddenly cracked open. What came out of it was a little dragon - just like Jack! He was so happy to see another dragon, he quickly made it his best friend. The two dragons flew away, no longer feeling sad. 

The animals never saw the giraffe again and they were very sad. They never knew what happened to her and why she had disappeared.

She smiled and said, "But why Dad? It looks so pretty."

One day, Timmy wanted to play with matches. He held one in his hand and shook it. But it didn't light up. He shook it harder, but nothing happened. Timmy was too weak to make it light up.

One day, when Jill looked at the car, she noticed something strange. There was a print on the side. She couldn't figure out where it came from. She kept looking at the print and suddenly, the car started to zip across the room. Jill was so excited, she couldn't believe it! 

She thanked the dragon for helping her on her adventure and set off on the next leg of her journey. She remembered the lessons she had learnt from the dragon, and with a nod of her head, she was off!
Once upon a time, there was a small boy named Ted. He was three years old and he was very curious. One day, he asked his mom to keep a special promise. His mom said, "Sure! I'll keep this promise." Ted was so glad. He smiled and hugged his mom.

Max hugged her back and tried to calm her down. He looked around and saw the bee fly away. He was relieved.

The little bird told her, "These creatures won't hurt you, I promise!" 

Together, they stretched their arms and Lily was able to climb up high into the tree. She felt so happy and proud of herself. "This is fun!" she shouted down to her mom.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. Lily loved to play on her soft carpet, which was her favorite thing in her house. One day, her big brother came in and stepped on her carpet with his muddy shoes. Lily got very upset and told him to take off his shoes before walking on her carpet. Her brother said a stupid thing, "Why should I? It's just a carpet." 

"Yes, they are," Sara's dad says. "They are not normal, they are special."
Sara and Ben were playing in the park. They saw a big bird with many feathers. The bird was red and blue and green. It was very pretty.

"Okay," she said.

Lily felt better after talking to her mom and drinking the warm milk. She went back to bed and fell asleep, dreaming of rainbows and unicorns instead of nightmares.
Once upon a time, there was a big field with lots of grass and flowers. A cow named Betsy lived in the field and she loved to eat the grass. One day, Betsy was feeling very hungry because she had not eaten much that day. She walked around the field looking for more grass to eat.

The toy soldier said, "Don't be sad, Timmy. Let's march in the rain!" Timmy thought that was a great idea and they both marched around in the rain, splashing in puddles. 

The little boy smiled and said, "Sure!"

She looked in the kitchen. There was no bread and cheese. There was only a jar of jam. Sara did not like jam. She wanted something else. She felt sad and angry.

But soon she heard a knock on the door. It was her brother. He said he wanted to read the book about the weather with her. He said he liked to learn about the sun, the rain, the wind and the snow too. Sara said no. She said the book was hers and he could not read it. She told him to go away.

Lily didn't listen and threw some bread to the bird. Suddenly, a bigger bird came and snatched the sandwich from Lily's hand. 

"But I want to play with the truck," Ben said. "It's so fun. I believe it can fly."

The little bird was so ashamed to see what had happened. He flew away quickly and never sang again.
Once upon a time, there was a girl called Pam. She had a favourite boat and she liked to play with it in the water. One day, she was playing with the boat in a big pond. Suddenly, a big ship sailed into the pond and Pam's boat got stuck underneath it. She shouted and waved to get the captain's attention, but he didn't seem to notice. 

One day, Lola wanted to play a new game. She got an idea, so she closed her eyes and jumped on the furniture. She pretended she was a superhero and had to save the world. 

Tom and his sister smiled. They liked rainbows. They put the sticker on their shirts. They thanked mom and dad. They thanked grandma.

"Let's play with the truck first," Ben said. "We can clean later."

The bird saw a kind cat who came to question it. The bird told the cat about its pain and how it couldn't fly. The cat felt sorry for the bird and wanted to help. The cat took the bird to a wise owl who knew how to heal small birds.

The cat ran home, relieved and excited. She brushed against the flowers and ran through the tall grass, until she reached the comfort of her home and bushed against the door waiting to be let in.
One day, two friends, Bob and Joe, went out to play. They decided to play a game of tag. Joe was it, so he had to try and tag Bob.

So, Mom got in bed with the little girl and showed her a hug that made the little girl feel safe. She started to feel warm and the nightmare went away. Eventually, the little girl drifted off to sleep, feeling secure and warm all night long.
Charles was anxious to explore outside. He looked out of his window and saw an interesting garage. He wondered what was inside.

Mom smiled. She knew that Sasha was not asking for just anything, so she decided to do something special.

Timmy felt sad and didn't want to play with the rock anymore. But then, his mom came outside and saw what was happening. She told Sarah to stop teasing Timmy and to be nice. Sarah apologized and Timmy felt happy again. He picked up the rock and showed it to his mom. She thought it was great and they all played together outside. The end.
Once upon a time, there was a kind girl named Lily. She loved to eat apples and would pick them from the tree in her backyard. One day, she went for a walk in the forest and got lost. She didn't know which way to go. 

They jump off the rock and run away. The mom bird chases them for a while, then goes back to her nest. Anna and Ben are safe, but they are also sorry.

Sara and Tom wait and watch the other kids. They see a girl with a pink dress and a boy with a blue shirt. They are swinging very high and laughing. Sara and Tom think they look fun. They say, "Hi, can we swing with you?" The girl and the boy say, "Hi, yes, you can. We are almost done. Do you want to push us?"

The mouse replied, "I am going exploring, I have an urge to explore the world!"

"Wow, a mineral!" Anna and Ben said, amazed. "Can we keep it, mom?"

The little girl nodded her head and the man gave her a pencil and some paper. They both wrote together, quietly and happily. When they finished, the man read the story aloud and the little girl clapped her hands with joy.

Max felt excited but also a little scared. He asked, "What will be in there?"

The garage was big and sturdy at first, but Jim noticed something strange about it. A single wall looked fragile, as if it would crumble with the slightest push. As Jim watched, the wall started to wobble and shake. He counted each rock as it fell to the ground.

Later that day, Lily's dad came home from work. "What did you do today, Lily?" he asked. "I drew a picture of a flower garden and laid it in a frame," said Lily. Her dad smiled and said, "That sounds lovely. Can I see it?" Lily proudly showed him the picture in the frame. "Wow, you're such a talented artist!" said her dad. 

John smiled and ran over. Suddenly a big kid stepped in front of him and said, "You can't join. We don't want kids as small as you!"

Ava was sad. She thought to herself, "perhaps I need to improve the soil to make the flowers taste better".

Her mum smiled and said, "It's a very special tool, it glowed!" 

The end.
The little girl was very excited. She had been walking around the field with her parents. It was a beautiful day and the sun was shining. The little girl's father asked her if she wanted to take a walk and she said yes.

Just then Tommy had an idea. He grabbed the pieces and tried to put them back together again. It was hard! He looked for the flexible parts and tried to make them fit. Finally it was complete. 

Her mom was so happy. She hugged Emily and said: "I'm so glad you are home, sweetheart. Let's get you tucked up in bed!" 

One day, she heard something strange coming from the trees. She stopped to listen and heard a strange sound repeating over and over again. It sounded like, "meow, meow". So, the kitten slowly walked closer, and saw a tiny, little kitten meowing. It was so little and scared, so the fast kitten went up to it and said, "meow".

Joe asked the old man why he didn't have a carpet anymore. The old man said,

Later that day, Lily and her mom went to the store. Lily saw a toy that she really wanted, but her mom said they didn't have enough money to buy it. Lily was sad because she wanted to spend her money on the toy. 

They began walking, and as they rounded a corner, Paul saw a big, green field.

"No, mine is faster and smarter!" Tom says.

One day, a big truck was stuck in the mud. The driver of the truck said, "Oh no! I need help!" The little red motor heard the driver and came to help. The motor said, "Don't worry! I will pull you out."

After that day, whenever Jenny went to the park, she would look for the stranger. They were great friends now, and Jenny was no longer scared of strangers.
Mr. and Mrs. Brown had a little son named Bobby. Bobby was a very polite and friendly boy. One day, Mr. and Mrs. Brown decided to take Bobby to the park. 

Just as Daisy was leaving the classroom, the teacher said, "Daisy, I'm so proud of you. Stop now and then and remember how proud you are of yourself." 

They slide down the hill many times. They enjoy the winter very much. They are happy.
Lily and Tom were twins who liked to play in their room. They had many toys, but their favorite was a big box of perfume bottles that their mom gave them. The perfume bottles were colorful and shiny, and they smelled nice.

After a little while, she got up and went back inside. She was feeling a little dull, so she decided to read a book. She loved books and they always made her feel better. She read her favorite book and then went to bed. She dreamt about sitting on the hedge and watching the birds. The end.
Once upon a time, there was a little duck. The duck liked to swim in the river. The river was very big and had lots of water. One day, the duck saw that the river was icy. The duck didn't know that meant it was slippery. The duck tried to swim, but slipped and fell in the water. The duck was scared, but then a kind frog came and helped the duck out of the river. From then on, the duck was careful when the river was icy.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Timmy. Timmy had a favorite toy truck that he loved to play with every day. One day, Timmy's truck got stuck in a tree and he couldn't get it down. He tried and tried, but it was too high up. 

After a while, the old man found the toy car in a nearby bush. He gave it to the little girl and she was so happy. She thanked him and gave him a big hug. 

So the mom packed their food and they ate until they were full. The daughter was so happy that her mom had spoiled her with a victory picnic. They both returned home with smiles on their faces. 

Tim opened the book and saw a dead bug on a page. He felt sad for the bug. He let the bug go outside. Tim said, "Bye, bug! Be happy now!"

The child was worried. She didn't want to leave the park because she was scared it would still be there when she came back. She asked her mom, "Mom, can't we put the broken tuna in the trash?" 

After the ambulance left, Lily's mom told her how proud she was of her for staying alert and being brave. Lily smiled and hugged her mom back, feeling happy and loved.
Once upon a time, there was a chubby bunny named Benny. Benny loved to eat carrots and play with his friends in the forest. One day, Benny and his friends decided to go to the fair. They needed a ticket to get in, but Benny didn't have one.

The sun shone brightly over the meadow, making all the grass sparkle.

Sam had shown that he could provide himself with magical adventures, just with his wide red balloon.
Once upon a time there was an open field with a fair pond. Lucy, the 3 year old, wandered in the field and saw a duck. She clapped and said "quack, quack". The duck flapped its wings and started to fly. Lucy was jumping with happiness.

As he was walking, he heard a sound. Something was squeezing his tail. The bear looked around, but he couldn't see what was squeezing his tail. He jumped and looked around to find the culprit. He saw a small rabbit in the bushes.

The otter smiled and said, "Hi! Would you like me to show you something cool?" 

One day, Jane asked her mom if she could go outside and play. Mom said yes and Jane went out with a big smile on her face.

"Tom and Lily, what are you doing?" Mom asks. "These clothes are not for you! They are for the charity! I was going to mail them today!"

Jack frowned. He really wanted to swing in the mud. But he followed his mom anyway and left the park.

"Can I hold it?" Mia asks.

"No, it's not," Ben said, confident. "I can count them. Watch me."

The man was very happy. He gave them a hug and a candy. He said they were very kind and smart.

Sara was not happy. She did not want to share her books. She thought her brother and sister were not smart enough to read them. She sighed and went to her room. She locked the door and started to read a book about the weather. She liked to learn about the sun, the rain, the wind and the snow.

From that day on, Lily would always wonder about the new store and the expensive things inside. She couldn't wait to see it when it opened.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to walk outside and feel the ground beneath her feet. One day, she saw a big hill that was very high. She wanted to climb it and see what was at the top.

The old man had used the red car to bring the elephant back to its home and save it from danger. The children thanked him for being so kind and brave. They waved goodbye as the old man and the elephant drove away in the red car.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl who had a big wish. She wanted to explore the ocean. She jumped up and down, and asked her mom if they could go. Her mom said yes, so they got onto a boat and sailed away.

The elderly owlet promised the mouse that he would protect him. He blinked his big, wise eyes, and the mouse immediately felt safe. The owlet invited the mouse back to his nest in a nearby tree. 

<INSTRUCTION> What idea did Joan have? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She had an idea about going out to the park again, and playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

One day, they want to watch a different show. Anna wants to watch the show with the animals, but Ben wants to watch the show with the cars. They start to argue and shout.

Jack and Jill received the turkey and ran home. They had a wonderful dinner that day and were very happy.
Once upon a time there was a brilliant engine who lived in a car. One day, the car drove to a special place with a lot of cars. The engine met many other engines. They all said hello and introduced themselves. 

He pushed the kayak into the water and started to paddle. He felt happy and free. He didn't care about Sam.

Tom said, "Little bird, I will help you." Tom went to the jail and used his hands to lift the door. The bird was free and happy. The bird said, "Thank you, Tom!"

Jane was surprised, but smiled at Tom. "It's okay," she said, "I forgive you."

Tom and Mia leaned over the edge of the pond. They reached out their hands to the fish. But the pond was deep, and they slipped and fell in.

Joy was so happy when she saw the penny! She smiled wide and said: "Oh penny, thank you so much! I will use you to buy candy and treats!" 

From that day on, Timmy made sure to keep his folder on a high shelf where his little sister couldn't reach it. He was happy that his pictures were safe and sound in their special folder.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved playing chess with her grandpa. One day, Lily's grandpa bought her an expensive chess set. Lily was so happy and thanked her grandpa.

Ann smiled and said, "Yes please!"

Lila got out of the modern car and walked to her car. She got in and put on her helmet. She drove her car back to her house. She parked her car in the garage and took her license. She went inside and found her mom. She told her mom about her adventure and showed her her license. Her mom said she was very brave and adventurous. She said she was proud of her. She gave her a hug and a kiss.

She looked around. Everywhere there were butterflies, fluttering and playing in the sunshine.

"Stop fighting, Tim and Spot!" she said. "You can take turns playing with the toy." She took the toy and put it on the stove to keep it safe. Tim and Spot felt sad because they couldn't play with the toy.

When Lucy got home, she showed her mum the treasures she had found. The light from the beads made their home look beautiful - just like the cave had before!

The two friends had a wonderful time, and the shy friend learned that sometimes it is OK to ask questions and discover new things.
Once upon a time, there was a lion who wanted something very delicious. He asked a little girl, "Please, can you help me? I am looking for something very delicious!"

"Can we write a story about the comet, dad?" Lily asked.

"Santa Claus? But it's not Christmas yet!" Tom said.

Lila and Rani waited patiently. They heard the salad sizzle and bubble. They smelled the sugar and nuts. They wanted to taste it, but their mother said, "No, not yet. We have to let it cool down first."

A few days later, Lily and Sarah went to the store to buy a basket for their picnic. They found a cheap basket that was perfect for carrying their sandwiches and drinks. They were so excited to use it for their picnic in the park.

They bumped into a rock and fell down. They looked up and saw something on the rock. It was a lizard. It had green scales and a long tail. It stared at them with its small black eyes.

The little girl smiled and said, "I like your smile, Clown! Will you play with me?"

The prince was very sad, but he didn't give up. He thought of a plan. He shouted out, "Wait, eagle! I could give you something even better!"

And so, Lily and her mom carved the pumpkin into a spooky face. When Halloween came, they put a candle inside the pumpkin and it glowed brightly. Lily was so proud of what she had found and created with her mom.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily who loved to play outside. One day, she found a caterpillar on a leaf. The caterpillar was very friendly and Lily liked him a lot. She decided to keep him as her pet.

Jimmy smiled and watched until it was out of sight. Then he went back to swing with his friends. That had been an exciting find and he couldn't wait to tell his mom about it when he got home!
Once there was a generous bear. He liked to help others and was always very kind. But he had one habit that no one really knew about: he loved to eat clay!

Later that day, Tweetie was flying in the sky when she saw a big, juicy worm on the ground. She remembered the quiz and used her beak to poke the worm. She was so happy that she got the quiz right and found a yummy snack!
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. One day, Lily went to the park with her mom. She was excited to play on the swings and slide. When they arrived, Lily saw a lot of leaves on the ground. She picked up a red leaf and showed it to her mom. "Look mommy, pretty leaf!" she said. 

Emma brightened up right away. She knew that soon she would have lots of lovely bright colours to paint with.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Sally. Sally loved to explore, so she went on fun adventures every day.

They tried to roll it, bounce it, and kick it. But it was not fun. It was too heavy and dull.

Flo's mum took out an old calendar from the drawer and let Flo look at it. Flo asked her mum why the calendar had funny drawings, and Flo's mum explained that each month had a different name and little symbol. She also told Flo that she needed to be careful when holding the calendar, as it was very important.

Tom felt sorry for Lily and ran to help her. He grabbed a tissue from his pocket and tried to wipe her face. But he was not gentle and he pushed the tissue too hard on her eyes. Lily felt more pain and cried louder.

The end.
Once upon a time, there was a big boat on the water. The boat was moving slow, and the people on it were getting bored. Suddenly, they saw a dolphin jumping in the water! The people were so happy and they started to rush to the side of the boat to see the dolphin. 

From that day on, Max and Lily were the best of friends. They played together every day and their lovely hearts were filled with happiness.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved flowers and had a pretty vase in her room. One day, her mommy asked her to deliver a vase to her grandma who lived far away.

The boy went up the trunk and was soon at the top of the tree. His eyes shone with excitement when he saw the light red apple. He couldn’t wait to take a bite. 

Her mommy heard her call and came running. She saw that Lily had eaten a dangerous berry and knew she needed to go to the doctor. They went to the hospital and the doctor helped Lily feel better. From then on, Lily knew to always ask her mommy before eating any berries.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to look up at the sky and see the stars twinkle. One night, she asked her mom, "Mommy, who supports the universe so it doesn't fall down?" 

Suddenly, a powerful voice boomed from above. It said, "Yes, this medal is for you! You have worked very hard and deserve this reward." 

Ben hears her. He wants the ball too. He says, "No, it is my ball. It is fair. You have many toys. I have few."

Anna feels sorry. She did not mean to put too much salt. She hopes the soup is still good.

"I'm Max. Do you like my marble?" the boy said.

John smiled and nodded. He was happy that they had delivered some good things to the landscape.
Once upon a time, there was a big mountain high in the sky. It seemed to stand forever and its peak touched the clouds. On the mountain, there lived a wise old man who saw the world's troubles. Each day he looked out on the horizon and prayed for peace.

"But I couldn't fold your sweater, Mommy. I don't know how to do it," Jenny said.

Sara was happy. She hugged her mom and dad again. She said, "Happy birthday, Mom. You are the most colorful and wonderful mom in the world." She felt warm and cozy. She thought it was a perfect day.
Tom and Lily are friends. They like to play in the grass. They have a ball and a kite. They throw the ball and run with the kite. They are happy.

Tom and his friends ate the cake together. They all said, "Yum! This dessert is so good!" Tom felt happy because he shared the cake with his friends. He learned that sharing is a fine thing to do, and it made everyone feel good.
Once upon a time, there was a big box in a room. A little boy named Tim saw the box and wanted to know what was inside. He tried to open it, but it was too hard for him. Tim felt sad and decided to wander around the house to find help.

The end.
Once upon a time there was a bad goat. He was very proud and often teased his neighbors. One day, a wolf asked the goat, "Why are you so proud?" The goat answered, "Because I am the best!"

Then, they saw a big tree. The toy was in the tree! Tom climbed the tree and got the toy for the little girl. She was so happy! Tom felt good because he was helpful. From that day on, Tom and the little girl were good friends.
One day, a little girl named Lucy found an unusual horn in her yard. It was big and shiny. She picked it up and showed it to her friend Tom. Tom looked at the horn and said, "I hate horns, they are too loud."

Tom says, "No, Sue, it is not a game. I need help. I need Mommy." He repeats what he says, hoping she will understand.

Lily liked the opera. She liked the music and the costumes and the story. She liked the singers. She wanted to sing like them. She whispered to her mom, "Mom, how can I sing like them?"

Rita quietly gave the toy to the boy, who looked at her in surprise. He thanked her and said, "You taught me a very important lesson: to respect people’s belongings and to treat others with kindness."

Timmy was very impatient and wanted his milk right away. He said, "Mommy, I want my milk now!" His mommy said, "Timmy, you need to be patient. The milk is coming."

"Hi Timmy, can we ride bikes?" asked Billy.

Together, they carefully dug out the treasure and found a beautiful diamond. From that day on, Andy and Lily crawled around together, looking for more treasures to discover.
Once upon a time, there was an ordinary boy named Timmy. He loved to play in the park, especially on the swings. One day, he saw a square box on the ground. It was just an ordinary box, but Timmy was curious.

The Lazy Cart slowly started to move. Sarah was so happy that she hopped onto it.

Suddenly, the balloon began to be filled with air. It was getting bigger and bigger. Then, it appeared in the sky - it flew very high. Lily was so excited. 

Then, she saw something special - a big golden wheel! Molly walked up slowly and put her hand on it. She gave the wheel a turn and the wheel began to spin. Suddenly, all the fashions changed into new, beautiful clothes! Molly was very happy and felt so calm.

She looks around the room. She does not see Tim. She does not see the blanket. She thinks Tim took it. She is angry. She wants to tell him to give it back. But she cannot talk. She only uses her hands. She uses sign language.

The sea was so grateful for the fish's kind request, it gave him all three wishes and more! The fish was so happy!

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan learn? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She learnt that she could prevent getting too hot by playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Bob went over to have a closer look. It was a delicate metal wire! His tail started wagging, as he knew this was the perfect thing to race with.

The little girl waved back and smiled. She asked the elephant if he wanted to go for a walk with her. He happily shook his head yes. So the two of them went for a walk around the zoo. Everywhere they went, the orange elephant would wave hello to his friends. The girl was so happy and even started waving to everyone too.

Suddenly, a big bear came and took all of their food. Timmy was very sad because they had nothing to eat. They had to go home early from their camping trip. The end.
Once upon a time, there was a princess who lived in a big castle. She had a pretty dress and a shiny crown. One day, a monster came to the castle with a big weapon. The princess was scared, but she knew she had to be brave. She grabbed a stick and tried to fight the monster. Suddenly, the sun started to rise and the light shone on the monster's face. The monster got scared and ran away. The princess was happy and felt proud of herself for being brave.
Once upon a time, there was a kind prince who lived in a big castle. One day, he invited all his friends to come and play with him. But one of his friends was feeling very weak and couldn't come to the castle. The prince was sad that his friend couldn't come, so he decided to go and visit him instead. 

"Maybe one day we can go in a flying vehicle, Lily. Maybe we can see other places and people. That would be fun." Ben said.

"Ouch, that hurt!" Lila says. "The tree is too thin. It cannot hold us."

From that day on, Timmy visited the bull every day. He would bring him fresh grass and water. The bull was very grateful and they became good friends. Timmy learned that sometimes things that seem scary aren't really that bad.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Timmy. Timmy loved to play outside with his friends. One day, Timmy's mom called him inside and said, "Timmy, it's time to take a bath." Timmy didn't want to take a bath because he was having too much fun playing with his friends.

She smiled and thanked her mum as she raced out of the kitchen with her treasures. The little girl was so happy with the amazing items in the drawer that she told all of her friends in the playground about it. Everyone was so excited to come visit her and explore the drawer!
Once upon a time there was a girl, she was very compassionate and always put others before her own needs. One day, she was walking down the street with her purse, when a mean gentleman stepped in front of her. He demanded that she give him her purse and he would not take no for an answer.

They both stared at the bell for a while, until Sally said, "Do you think it's harmless?" Timmy didn't know what the word "harmless" meant, so Sally explained that it meant the bell wouldn't hurt them. Timmy smiled and rang the bell again, feeling happy that he found something so pretty and harmless.
Once upon a time, there was a little frog named Freddy. Freddy was very lonely because he didn't have any frog friends to play with. One day, Freddy saw a big, shiny knob on a door. He decided to jump on it to see what would happen. When he jumped on the knob, the door opened and he saw a room full of other frogs! Freddy was so happy to have found some new friends to play with. From that day on, Freddy would jump on the knob every day to visit his new frog friends.
Once upon a time, there was a boy named Timmy. Timmy loved to sing into his microphone and make up songs. He was very creative and always came up with new tunes. One day, Timmy wanted to make a special song, so he asked his mom for some help. She gave him some flour, sugar, and eggs to mix together to make cookies. Timmy mixed them all up and then sang a song into his microphone while the cookies baked in the oven. When they were done, he shared them with his friends and they all sang and danced together. Timmy was very happy that he could be creative and make something yummy to share with his friends. The end.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to play outside and look at the pretty flowers. One day, she saw a charming butterfly fluttering around the garden. She wanted to catch it and keep it as her pet.

One day, they see something move in the sand. It is a crab! The crab has a big shell and two claws. It walks sideways and digs a hole. Tim and Mia watch the crab with big eyes. They want to touch it, but Mom says no. The crab might pinch them.

"Give me that scale!" Tom says. He tries to grab it from Sara.

Grace was filled with pride. She knew that being able to sign was a very special talent. And she was so proud to show it off.
Once upon a time, there were two friends, George and Lucy. They were playing in the park when they saw something amazing. It was a triangle that was flying in the sky. George and Lucy were so excited. They smiled and started pointing, shouting "Look! Fly! Triangle!" 

So Mandy went quietly back inside, feeling a little embarrassed. But she knew it was for her own safety and so she was happy to get inside before it was too late.
"Look, Mommy!" exclaimed three-year-old Jenny. She had found a strange knot in the garden of her home.

Later that day, Lily's friend came to play with her. They decided to have a tea party and pour some tea for their dolls. Lily's friend saw the chess set and asked, "What is that?" Lily replied, "It's a chess set. My grandpa gave it to me today. It's very expensive."

Sara and Ben run to the gate. They push the button. They hear a loud sound. The gate does not open. A voice says, "Who is there? Go away!"

<INSTRUCTION> What idea did Joan have? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She had an idea about going out to the park again, and playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Tim and the squirrel played with the cone, rolling it on the ground and throwing it in the air. They had lots of fun together. When it was time to go home, Tim put the cone back under the tree and said goodbye to his new squirrel friend.
Once upon a time, there was a big fish named Bob. Bob lived in a big lake with many other fish. One day, Bob saw an enormous net in the water. The net was so big that it could catch all the fish in the lake.

"Sure, you can share it. But you have to wash it first. It is dirty," Mom said.

The little girl wasn't sure what the man meant, so she asked again. The man explained, "Eating lots of vegetables and keeping active helps me stay fit and healthy."

Anna felt sad and angry. She said, "Lily, give me back my comb! You have used it for a long time. It is my comb, not yours!"

"Is the lion in the box?" Lily says.

They all had a great time playing together and eating limes. Lily was happy to have such good friends.
Once upon a time, there was a lady with a purse. She loved her purse very much. It was tough and she took it everywhere she went. One day, a bad person came and wanted to take the purse. The lady said no, but the bad person didn't listen. He tried to take the purse and destroy it. The lady tried to stop him, but he was too strong. In the end, the bad person took the purse and ran away. The lady was very sad and cried a lot.
One day, a little girl named Lily went to the park with her mom. She saw a big, scary dog and got scared. "Mommy, that dog is scary," she said. "Don't worry, Lily," her mom said, "just ignore the dog and it will go away." 

Ralph replied, "Yes, I want to play with you. What game do you want to play?"

"Let's rest for a bit," Anna said. "I have some juice and crackers in my bag."

"No, honey, we can't raise a lion," mom said. "Lions are wild animals, not pets. They need a lot of space and meat, and they can be dangerous."

Lily shook her head and said, "I don't like the dark. It makes me feel alone and sad. And I can't see your face."

"What do you want?" asked the tallest boy.

The boy was no longer hungry, so he went outside to play in the sun with his friends. He called out to them "Come play with me!" 

Carla approached the tree and asked, "Hey, tree. Do you have anything fun to do?"

Suddenly, a little girl walked into the room with her mom. The girl saw the eraser and smiled. She dropped down to the floor and hugged the eraser tight. The eraser felt the girl's warmth and it was able to move again!

The man asked: “How many eggs do you lay?� 

Lily was curious, so she went to meet the boy. He told her his name was Tom and he was looking for his lost toy. Lily offered to help him find it. They looked under the slide, in the sandbox, and even in the bushes. 

Her friends heard her and ran to the pond. They saw Lily's head and arms above the water. They shouted for a grown-up to come and save her. They also prayed to God to keep Lily safe and dry.

Tom sees the snake. He is not scared. He thinks the snake is fun. He says, "No, no, no. The snake is not bad. The snake is different. Different is good. Different is fun. Look, the snake can bend and twist. The snake can make shapes. The snake can be a circle, a triangle, or a square."

In the end, they ended back where they had begun, completely happy and filled with trust in one another.
Sam and Sara were playing with their scooter. They raced each other around the park, laughing and having lots of fun.

Anna and Ben nod. They understand. They hug Mom and say sorry again.

Suddenly, a rabbit came hopping by and saw the little boy. The rabbit said, "I can help you get the prune if you play a game with me. We will see who can hop the highest. It will be a competitive game!".

Jane was scared, and she started to jog away. But then she noticed something on the ground and stopped. It was a pear that had fallen from the tree.

From that day on, the little girl and Robby became good friends. They would play together and have lots of fun. And every time the little girl saw Robby, she would smile and say, "Thank you for helping me find my teddy bear."
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to play outside and explore. One day, she went to the park with her mom. They brought some equipment to play with, like a ball and a jump rope.

Daniel liked this idea, so he quickly put on his shoes and went to his neighbor's home. He knocked on the door and when his neighbor answered, Daniel said, "Can I borrow your dog to play in the yard with me?"

When they returned, the turkey had been able to laugh again. He thanked Lucy for the good time and together, they laughed and laughed until the sun set.
Once there was a bunny who loved to hop. He liked hopping all around, especially in the sunshine. One day, while he was hopping, he saw a harmless pear nearby. He had never seen one before, so he hopped over to take a closer look.

"Let's go for a ride," Ben said. "It will be fun."

Then, something special happened. Joe let Ann play with the yellow balloon. They both had a great time playing together and laughing. 

<INSTRUCTION> What Anna and Bella do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Anna and Bella laughed, knowing that the table in the garden was a very special place. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

"No, it is mine!" Sam says. "I saw it first! You can play with the other cars."

"Can we open it?" Ben asks. "Maybe we can play with it."

"Oh, what an old and dry card," her mom said. She told her that the card must have been left behind by someone a very long time ago. The little girl thought it was so exciting to think that someone else had been there before her! She carried the dry card back to the tree, tapping the trunk and leaving it at the base.

Eventually, the little car and the slow car were ready, and the race began. The little car was finally able to drive as fast as it wanted and crossed the finish line first! It had been worth the delay!
Susie was playing at the beach. She picked up a shell and held it in her hand. She could feel how smooth and hard it was and it looked so pretty. She thought it would be a great toy to play with. 

Sarah was very sad. She realised that if she had taken better care of her plants, maybe some of her plants would not have been lost.

<INSTRUCTION> What idea did Joan have? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She had an idea about going out to the park again, and playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Jessica spent the rest of the day playing and trying new things. She was so excited! She was happy that she had tried something new.
Once upon a time, there was a playful sailor who lived in a big boat. He always had lots of fun, but he always had one big question. One day, he decided he would look for the answer.

The dog did not reply. He dropped the shoe and ran to a man. The man was the dog's owner. He was looking for him.

But Tom did not listen. He ran to the wall and started to draw a big circle. He was very happy. He did not see that the pen was not a normal pen. It was a magic pen.

Kitty thought and thought about what to make. She decided to draw a big, beautiful picture for her friends. She got her crayons and started to draw. Kitty worked hard all day, using all her favorite colors. She was very excited to show her friends the surprise.

Jack wondered what made the sigh. He was so curious. As he got closer and looked inside the barrel he saw a creature.
Jack was so surprised! He never seen something like it before. It was weird.

Mommy smiled again and said, "Okay, let's swing. Hold onto the bottle tight and have fun!" Jimmy held the bottle tight and began to swing. He was laughing and smiling the whole time.

She carefully picked up the kitten, who was adorable and fluffy, and brought it inside. She washed off the mud and dried the kitten off with a warm, soft towel. 

"I have to take this sack to my house," JoJo replied. 

"Wow, it is fast!" Ben says.

Lily smiled, happy that she was able to remind her mum of such happy times. From then on, she kept safe the unusual carrot and brought it with her whenever she explored the woods.
Ricky was excited. He was about to move for the very first time. Ricky had been practicing for days with his new cone. He moved proudly around it as his mum cheered him on from the sidelines. 

From that day onwards, the little girl and her plastic toy were always together. She was always so playful and so were her adventures with her beautiful toy.
Once there was a baby named Gary. He was three years old and loved to laugh. Gary wanted to eat something yummy so he asked his mom for an avocado. His mom gave him some avocado slices on a plate. Gary liked it so much that he started to laugh. He liked it even more when he put salt on top. 

When they had finished their sail, the rabbit said to the squirrel “now it is time to be brave and humble! We must be brave to go on an adventure, and humble to remember that not everything will be perfect.�

"I don't know," Mia says. "Maybe they belong to someone."

Mia smiled back. She was happy that the tiger was happy. She wanted to play with him, but she heard her mom and dad calling her name. They were worried and angry. They had seen her go through the hole and run to the tiger. They came to get her and take her back to safety.

One day, they find a peanut on the ground near the slide. They wonder who left it there. Maybe a squirrel or a bird. They decide to share it. Ben breaks it in half and gives one part to Lily. They both eat it and say yum.

<INSTRUCTION> What were the two sisters doing? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> The two sisters were having so much fun until they heard a loud noise. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Finally her parents gave in and said the kid could leave. She was so excited and hugged them goodbye. Unfortunately, the kid was never seen again. Her parents were heartbroken and knew she must have lied.
Once there was a dependable cow who lived on a farm. She had the most beautiful horn which she was proud of. Every morning, the cow would go out for a walk and finish in the same spot by the river.

John sure was glad he found that lumber!
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Thomas. He was three years old and loved to explore. One day, he went on a big adventure to a far away oasis.

Tom, who was a bit shy, said, "What is it?"

"No, we cannot go outside," Mia says.

Lily was angry. She said, "No, Max, that is not right. You are messing up my puzzle. Go away and play with your own toys."

Then one day, he saw something special. A light was hanging from the branch of his tree. It was sparkling so brightly and it had beautiful red, yellow and blue colors. The frog loved it. He hung from the tree and watched the light sparkle and dance in the breeze.

Sara says, "I saw the money first. It is mine. I will buy a doll and a dress and a hat." Ben says, "No, it is mine. I will buy a car and a truck and a plane." They start to pull the jar from each other. They are very angry.

Later, he came across a tall mountain and said, "Wow, that's amazing!" He was quite happy and excited. 

But, he was so happy he found the amazing apple. With a full tummy, he marched back to his home. 

"Can we go, Mom?" Sara asked.

Mia was so happy to explore the amazing mine. She would return often to find new exciting supplies!
Once upon a time there was a small boy named Peter. Peter liked to play and learn new things. Everyday when he went to school, his teacher would give him fun tests. Peter liked the tests because he was competitive. He liked to do the best he could and get the most answers right.

The daughter shook her head and replied, "No, I can do it. I'm a dependable puzzle master!"

Ernie's dad quickly came to his side and hugged him tight. He said that it was okay and he understood why the hammer broke. He said a real hammer was much too heavy for Ernie. Then his dad went back outside and got a special toy hammer for Ernie. They spent the rest of the afternoon making things together, and it was a lot of fun.
Once upon a time there was a clumsy rabbit. He was always bumping into things and tripping over his feet. But one day, he found an amazing jewel. It was sparkling and beautiful! He couldn’t believe his luck! He put it in his pocket and hurried home.

"I would like a big sandwich with cheese and ham, and a glass of milk, please," Lily said, looking at the menu.

Later that day, Lily decided to play tea party with her dolls. She put a blanket on the floor and sat her dolls around it. Suddenly, she remembered the stinky carpet and decided to use it as a tablecloth instead. When her mom saw what she had done, she laughed and said, "That's a great idea, Lily! Now we can use the carpet for something good."
Once upon a time, there was a big war. Many people were sad and scared. But one soldier was proud to fight for his country. He wore a shiny helmet and marched with his friends.

<INSTRUCTION> What idea did Joan have? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She had an idea about going out to the park again, and playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

The parents then gave him a gentle tap on the head. His punishment was to be humble, no more naughty behavior! He acknowledged the punishment with a nod, wiped his tears and promised he wouldn't be naughty again.

Molly smiled and said "We will get to meet lots of horses and maybe even lay on some of them."

<INSTRUCTION> What di Joan's mother say to her? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Her mother said, Joan, you must take a nap and prevent getting too hot. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Tom was scared. He realized he made a mistake. He wanted to go back to the park. He wanted to see Lily. He wanted to say sorry. He cried and screamed, but no one heard him. The man was mean and hit him. He said he would never see his parents or Lily again.

They look at the kite. They see a problem. The kite has a hole in it. The wind goes through the hole. The kite does not hang in the air.

Suddenly, the box breaks. It falls to the floor. Out comes a big mess. There are papers and crayons and stickers and glue. They are all over the room. They are all over Anna and Ben.

Afterwards, Lily's friend said "thank you" and Lily said "sorry" for scaring her. They hugged and continued to play together. From that day on, Lily knew that she could protect her friends and make them feel safe.
Once upon a time, there was a big castle where a queen lived. She was very pretty and kind. One day, she went for a walk in the forest and saw a wild rabbit. The rabbit was very cute and the queen wanted to keep it as a pet. 

Every day, Spot and the tree played together. They became best friends. The other dogs and kids in the park thought it was fun to play with Spot and the tree too. And they all lived happily ever after.
Once upon a time, there was a thoughtful little girl named Lily. She lived in a small house with her mom, dad, and dog named Spot. Every morning, Lily would wake up and go to the bathroom to get ready for the day.

With a warm heart, the boy watched the rhinoceros walk away. He knew his adventure was one he would never forget!
Once there was a very sad dinosaur. He thought no one could help him feel better. But one day he saw a boy in the park. The boy had a toy box. He was playing with things from his box. The dinosaur went closer to take a peek. He saw lots of fun things like cars and animals. He saw a bright red ball in the box too. 

Back in her room, Sally and her mom arranged the plastic toys around the room, and it looked much better. Sally was very happy with the improvement. 

The boy looked at Lily's lip and said, "You have a pretty lip." Lily smiled and said, "Thank you. Do you want to play with me? We can look for your toy car together." The boy's face lit up and he said, "Yes, please!"

That night, Lily looked at her toy pattern and felt safe. She was not frightened anymore. She said to her teddy bear, "Thank you for helping me not be scared." And she slept well all night.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Amy. Amy liked to play and discover new things. One day, she found a brilliant purse under her bed. She was very happy.

It was fun to watch the ball roll back to the top of the mountain. The bird was happy and he learned that sometimes things that seem scary are really just fun.
Jack was playing in his garden with his favourite toy - a big red brick. It always made him happy to look at it because it was the most unique brick that he had ever seen. 

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan wanted to do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Joan still wanted to play. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

He reached his hand inside the log to touch the centipede. He wanted to see how it felt.

The lady dashed around trying to collect all her coins, but she was too slow. With all the coins scattered, it was hard for the old lady to find them all.

That night, Lily was sleeping in the guest room when she heard a strange noise. She looked up and saw a ghost floating in the air! The ghost was persistent and wouldn't go away. 

Sadly, the egg broke and the little bird inside didn't get to come out and play. The moral of the story is that sometimes bad things happen, but we should always try to help and protect those who need it.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. One day, she found a shiny coin on the ground. She was very happy and showed it to her friend, Timmy.

Mom said, “Yes, June. Be careful!�

As Max was swinging, the cable suddenly broke and Max fell to the ground. Timmy was scared and didn't know what to do. He ran to get help from the other animals in the jungle. They all came together to help Max and make sure he was okay. Max realized that he shouldn't have ignored Timmy's warning about the cable. From then on, Max promised to always listen to his friends and not ignore them.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Timmy. Timmy loved to play outside in the grass. He would run and jump and sometimes fall down, but the grass was tough and kept him safe.

Jane dragged her feet as she did the dishes. It took her a long time and it didn't feel easy. Suddenly she had an idea.

Sam heard Tom's cry and ran to him. He saw the bull coming closer and closer. He had to think fast. He saw a fence nearby. He grabbed Tom's hand and pulled him to the fence. They climbed over it and escaped from the bull.

The boy had an amazing time that day. He went on a drive, found his car, and saw the harmless creature he had been looking for. It was an adventure he would never forget.
Once upon a time there were two best friends, Martin and Ellen. They were both 3 years old and were always playing together. 

"Oh no," said Mom, "let's see if we can fix it." Mom worked hard with the blocks and finally she was able to put it back together.

His mom replied, “That's a razor. It helps you shave the hair off your face.�

The wolf ran away and the fox went back to having fun, safely swinging in the park. The end.
Once upon a time, there were two friends called Joe and Molly. Joe and Molly loved to play together. One day, Joe said to Molly, "Let's go get pizza!" Molly clapped her hands and was very happy. 

"Look, Mommy!" Timmy said as he held up the toy. "I found it outside in the rain. It's all wet!" 

The moral of the story is that even when apart, you can still stay close to your friends if you remember to stay connected.
One day, a small boy called Sam found a kite in the park. He was so happy to see it! He ran to get it and started to fly it.

But then she started feeling competitive. She wanted to know if she could eat even more spaghetti! So she imagined a big bowl of spaghetti was in front of her. This time it was even bigger than before! It was a big challenge for Sarah.

The octopus happily spent the day exploring and playing. As it watched the sunset, the octopus felt so content and relaxed. It went to its special spot and watched as the stars twinkled in the night sky.

Roger looked at his mom in surprise. "They can talk?"

The clumsy friend said, “Why don’t you want to catch a bug?� 

The two animals started to quarrel. The mouse was angry and ran away.
 
He ran to the pond and found a stick. Then he went back to the squirrel with the stick and said "I want to play with this".

The happy boy skipped over to the stack of blocks. He started to build something with the blocks. He build it very carefully and made it tall and strong. He stood back to look at it. It was really nice! 

"That is not nice! He is a bully!" Ben says, sad.

Sara said, "Deal." She put her tablet in her backpack and went to the park with her mom. She had a good time with her friends. She saw many colorful things. She was happy.
Tom and Lily were playing in the park. They liked to run and jump and slide. They saw a big hill with some rocks and grass. They wanted to climb the hill and see what was on the other side.

Suddenly they heard a noise coming from the sky. They looked up and saw the train flying above them! It was circling around in the sky. Anny laughed and clapped her hands. Jake shouted for excitement. Then, the toy train vanished and flew away.

At the end of the test, Sally saw that she got a great score. She had worked hard and it paid off! She was so proud of herself and knew that she had achieved success.
John and Mary knew it was always fun to play in the cold, white snow. The snow was all around them and they could feel it getting colder and colder.

"Yes, they are," Ben said. "But we should not touch them. They are delicate. The bird will be sad if we break them."

Jack smiled. He thanked the bird and wished him a good day. He then continued his walk through the forest.
Sam was a wealthy man. He had a very beautiful garden with lots of flowers and trees. One day, he was walking in the garden and noticed a circle on the ground. It was made from rope that was tied together in a loop.

"Did you have fun, kids?" Mom asked.

One day, Jack said, "I have a plan! Let's celebrate my birthday today." Jill smiled and said, "Yes, it will be fun!"

Mary smiled. She wasn't scared anymore and knew that the dog wasn't going to hurt her. She asked it "Do you want to play?". The dog barked and wagged its tail in response, so Mary started running and laughing around the garden. The dog chased her around for the rest of the day.
Mama and Baby were playing. Mama asked Baby to give her a big kiss. Baby smiled and put out a squishy, sticky hand. Mama was amazed. "Where did you get that jelly?" she asked. Baby showed her a thick jar of jelly on the table.

Moral of the story: Always be gentle with animals and nature.
John opened the door and saw a lock. He wanted to open it but the lock refused. He felt sad and quietly stepped away from the door. Then he heard a voice from inside the lock. "Don't be sad," it said. "I just need a key!" John was happy. He ran to find a key that might open the lock. 

Tom asked the teacher, "What is this feeling inside my heart?"
The teacher smiled and said to him, "It's the feeling of healing. When you learn something new, your heart can heal and grow stronger."

But the father never returned home. He was gone many days and his daughter was so sad and lonely. 

One day, her parents decided to take her on a trip to the beach. She was very excited and looking forward to it. But as soon as she arrived, she saw a big stair in front of her. Her heart sank. The trip was ruined, she thought. 

The little girl closed her eyes and prayed. Suddenly, a white owl flew above her with a menu in its talons. She quickly grabbed the menu from the owl and gave it to the dragon. 

The little bird died soon after, alone in the pile of ash with no help. John looked back and smiled sadly. He knew that he should have kept trying harder to help.
Once upon a time there was a little girl who was so very careful. One day she went outside to play and she found a caterpillar! She was so excited!

Grandma and Grandpa were never seen again.

John said, "Let's enjoy our jelly now!" 

Tilly grabbed her rake, feeling warm and happy inside. She had done an amazing job with the rake and was super proud of herself.
Once upon a time there was an adorable little rabbit. His mommy told him to rake the leaves in the garden. So he raked and raked but it was a lot of work and he got tired very quickly.

Fred was very happy. Now he could eat until he was full. He thanked the farmer and went back to his barn, his tummy full and happy.
Once upon a time, there was a garden. It was full of brightly coloured flowers and tall green trees.


<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan wanted to do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Joan still wanted to play. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Her mom asked her, "What's wrong, Lily?"

“What’s wrong mama?� asked the 3 year old child.

The baby smiled and said, “Yea! That would be fun.�

Her mom smiled and said, "Those are lovely, Lily. You have such a green thumb!"

One day a little mouse was walking across the bridge. He saw a big dog on the other side and the little mouse wanted to show the dog how brave he was. He bowed to the big dog and kept walking.

The boy didn't listen and just laughed at Lily. But Lily didn't give up. She said, "You should be kind to your sister. She loves you and wants to play with you."

When Timmy's friends saw his new hockey stick, they wanted to try it out too. But Timmy didn't want to share because he was afraid they might break it. One of his friends said, "Why won't you let us use it? Is it because it's too heavy?" Timmy replied, "No, it's not heavy. It just weighs a little more than my old one."

Without the help of the little girl, Mrs. Greene was unable to bring the groceries home and was left feeling very sad.
Sarah and Mommy went to a stadium. It was big and unfamiliar. Sarah was feeling uncomfortable. 

"Look, Lily, I made a big snowman!" Max said. He showed his paper to his sister. "He has a hat, a scarf, and a carrot nose."

Her mom replied, "Lily, you don't need to carry such a heavy water bottle. You can drink from a smaller one that is easier for you to carry." 

Bob thought it was silly to bite things, so he said: "No, that's not nice!"
The fox disagreed and it smiled. "Why don't you try it? It's fun!"

Sora stepped away from the garden with her mom and they went inside their house. Sora's mom applied some ointment to Sora's feet and the pain started to ease away. 

Lily nodded and said, "Yes, I like it. It is very pretty. Can I play with it too?"

Mary enjoyed the fresh, delicious taste of the apple. She said, "This is really good too!" Her mom replied, "Glad you like it." Mary smiled and hugged her mom. All was well again in the house.
Once upon a time there was a little bird, who was proud and strong. He was so proud that he wanted to fly away and escape the land.

"Can I bring my doll?" Lily asked.

Lily thought for a moment. She said, "I like flowers. They are pretty and smell good."

Lily nodded and thanked Sara. She got on the bike and Sara helped her balance. They rode around the park together, laughing and talking. Sara was glad she made a new friend.

Daddy comes home from the store. He sees the green tape on the wall. He is very angry.

"Hey, you kids! What are you doing here? This is our boat, not yours! Get off now or we'll call the police!"

June's wide eyes lit up as she said, "That's it! I think we should try to figure out how it works!"

Lily started singing the song, but suddenly she stopped and looked fearful.

"OK, then let's put it back," she said. She helped Ben dig a hole and put the mole inside. They covered it with dirt and leaves.

They both ran until they were too exhausted to run anymore. When they stopped, Tim said "That was awesome! Let's go again tomorrow".

The queen went to the park to relax. She sat on a soft, green grass. The queen saw a bug. The bug was disgusting. The queen did not like the disgusting bug.

"It is somewhere unknown to you," said the ants.

The old lady was very sad and she started to cry. Just then, a kind man saw her and he asked, “What’s wrong?�

And so Tom had a wonderful day, having explored the rough bush and seen lots of exciting things!
Once upon a time, there was a robot. It was fast and strong. It could do a lot of things. One day, the robot went for a walk. It wanted to guess a secret. As it walked, it noticed something interesting. It saw an animal crawling in the grass. "What is that?" the robot wondered. It couldn't tell. It had to guess. So it made a guess. It guessed that the animal was a rabbit. And it was right! The robot was happy. It had guessed the secret.
One day, at the beach, Sam saw something strange. There was a mysterious row in the sand. The row seemed to be increasing, getting longer and longer.

They heard a loud voice from the painting.

Jack and Jill began to stir. They collected anything they could find like hats, buckets and ribbons. They asked around the neighbourhood until they had enough things to make a costume for everyone.

As they continued their walk, they saw a man holding a bottle. Lily asked, "What's in the bottle, daddy?" Her daddy replied, "It's wine, sweetie. It's a drink for grown-ups." 

"This is my special room," Grandma said. "It's very fancy and I don't let anyone but me go in here." 

Lucy was so excited, she started reaching for them. But then, her mother noticed what she was doing.

But after a while, True starts to act strange. He says, "I am bored. I want to do something else. I want to be the boss. You have to do what I say."

Lily and Ben nod. They say, "Yes, mom and dad. We can work together and make a menu with both salad and pizza. We are sorry for fighting. We love you."

"Or a watch?" Lily said.

"I'm so happy!," said Carol, jumping up and down on her new couch. 

A kind voice spoke up to the cell, ‘Why are you suffering?’ It was a small boy, no more than three years old.

They felt sad and angry. They put down their brushes and crossed their arms.

His crew nodded in agreement and looked at their brave friend with admiration. Jim had done it! He had recorded a brave moonwalk and made history.
Once upon a time, there lived a very curious girl called Lucy. One day, she asked her mum a million questions. She wanted to know everything there was to know. 

"Yes, please!" Lily and Sam said, giving Ben a penny each.

Lily walks around the tree. She sees Tom's foot sticking out. She smiles and says "Got you!"

Lily and Max think for a moment. They like yummy breakfasts and fun activities. Maybe school is not so bad after all.

The tree answered, “I lit up because you touched me.� 

Sally felt understood and happy. She smiled and thanked her mom. Everyone laughed and the party became much more cheerful.
Once upon a time there was a little girl who liked to play with her toys. Her favourite toy was a balloon. One day, the balloon wanted to join in the fun so she decided to spray it with some water. She grabbed a spray bottle and started spraying the balloon. 

On the way to the park, Lila saw a big, shiny car. It was a modern car with many buttons and lights. It looked very cool and fun. Lila wanted to see it closer. She drove her car next to the modern car and stopped. She looked at the driver. He was a man with a beard and glasses. He smiled at Lila and said hello.

They started again and this time, they made the biggest tower they had ever made. Her brother was so happy and they both laughed and played together for hours. From that day on, they always played together and built the biggest and strongest towers.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Tim. Tim loved to play and explore. One day, Tim and his friends were playing outside when they felt the ground shake. "What's happening?" Tim asked. "I think it's an earthquake," his friend replied.

One day while she was outside, Sweety saw a cat in a big, tidy garden. She was curious so she wandered over to take a closer look. When Sweety was nearby, the cat hissed at her. She gasped in surprise and ran back towards her mom.

"Can I see?" Ben asked, reaching for the crystal.

The next morning, the little bear found that some of the treats had rotted overnight. He was so sad and disappointed but he still had a fun time at the party.
John had an adventure. He was in the park with his parents. He saw a slide. He was so excited! John ran over to the slide and grabbed the sides. He ran up the stairs and sat on the top. He was high up and his heart pounded with excitement.

But then, Lily's little brother, Ben, comes in. He sees the train and wants to play too. He grabs the train and runs away. Lily and Max are sad and angry. They say, "Hey, that's our train! Give it back!"

Tom nods and smiles. He likes the cloud. He draws a big bird under the sun. He makes it red and blue like his crayon. He says, "Look, Lily, I draw a bird. It is pretty and fast. Do you like it?"

Suddenly, he heard a voice. It said to him, "Pigeon, why are you feeling so troubled?" He replied, "I don't know why, I just feel sad." The voice said, "Do not worry, just enjoy flying. Zoom around and have fun." 

"Dad, can we go on the slide?" Timmy asked.

"OK," Ben says. "But tomorrow, we can unfold our castle and play with it again."

<INSTRUCTION> What idea did Joan have? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She had an idea about going out to the park again, and playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

"It's me, the magic bunny!" said a tiny voice.

When the little girl looked up at the snack, she was very happy. She was very lucky to have such a yummy treat! She thanked the tree for watching over it.

When he arrived, the mechanic said, "It is fixed! You can drive your truck away now."

Suddenly, they heard a loud roar from the other side of the log. They stopped pulling and looked up. They saw a big, green, scaly head with sharp teeth and yellow eyes. It was a crocodile!

Lily's mom was proud of her for being kind and sharing with others. The moral of the story is that it's always good to supply others with what we have, even if it's just a little bit.
Once upon a time, there was a cute little fish named Nemo. Nemo lived in a big reef with his family and friends. One day, Nemo accidentally hurt his friend's feelings by taking his toy. His friend was very sad and didn't want to play with Nemo anymore.

Lily and Ben smiled too. They helped mom pick up the glass and dry the floor. They said sorry to the snowman. They said thank you to mom. They learned their lesson. They went downstairs and had some cookies and milk. They were happy again.
Tom and Lily were playing in the living room. They liked to pretend they were in a big castle. They used pillows, blankets and chairs to make walls and towers. They also had some books and toys on a shelf that they used as treasures.

Jim did not want to jump in the puddles. He said, "No, I don't want to. The storm is too scary!" But Jim's sister insisted, "It will be fun! I'll be with you and nothing bad will happen!"

Lily and Sam started to cry. Their moms and dads came to see what was wrong. They saw the broken doll and the sad children. They felt sorry for them. They tried to fix the doll, but it was too late. The doll was gone.

The owl obliged and flew around the forest. After a few hours the owl had removed all the rocks.

Billy smiled and said, "It opens a secret door to a world of magic and surprises!"
One day, a mother took her 3-year-old daughter to the park. The sky was cloudy and the little girl’s cheeks were rosy red from the cold. But the daughter still felt excited and ran around until she was quite sleepy. 

Suddenly, there was a loud noise. It was coming from the nearby fan. Jane and her friends looked up and laughed. Jane said, "Let's match the fan together!"

Lily feels sleepy. She signs, "I am sleepy. Can we go home?" Her mom nods and signs, "Yes, we can. You worked hard today. You deserve a nap." They walk home, holding hands and signing. Lily is happy and sleepy. She loves to sign.
Lily and Ben were playing in the garden. They liked to dig in the dirt and look for bugs and stones. Sometimes they found shiny things that they called jewels. They put them in a box and pretended they were pirates.

Alice was scared and angry. She ran as fast as she could, but the man was too fast and he finally caught her. He put her in a cage and she was helpless.

"It is so cool!" Ben says, jumping up and down.

Lily sat on a bench and watched her friends play on the swing. She felt sad because she really wanted to try it too. Suddenly, one of her friends came over and asked if she wanted to take turns on the swing. Lily was so happy! She put her sack down and ran to the swing. 

Penny looked at the garden and said, "This is so important! I need to make the perfect shade". She thought for a moment, and then started getting some materials together.

But as soon as Mrs Fluffy landed on the box, her old enemy the fox appeared. “CHASE!� yelled the fox as he ran towards them. Mrs Fluffy was so scared and flexible - she quickly ducked under the box and hid!

They decided to make a new snowman. They used the hat and the carrot nose that they found. They also found a scarf and some buttons. They made the snowman smile. They said, "This is our snowman. He is happy and friendly. He likes to share and be kind."

"It is not a dog, it is a rock," Tom said. He felt silly.

He walked until he found a beautiful root. He was so excited and he furry belly rolled on the ground.

But Lucy was too nosy and kept trying to sneak into the barn. The farmer finally got so annoyed that he opened the door and let the fox out. The fox ran outdoors and started chasing Lucy. 

So the two tribes united and worked together to lift the iron and move it away. They rejoiced in their unity, and promised to never fight again. 

One day a little girl named Lucy heard the bell ringing. "What's that?" She said, "It sounds so nice!"

Mama heard the noise and came in to see what was going on. She saw Mary and Sam clapping, and she smiled.

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan learn? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She learnt that she could prevent getting too hot by playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Mom heard the noise and came upstairs. She saw the broken lamp and the clothes and the hat. She was not happy. She said, "What happened here? Why did you make such a mess? Why did you fight over the hat?" Lily and Tom hung their heads. They said, "We are sorry, mom. We were playing dress-up and we did not want to end. We both liked the hat and we did not share. We did not mean to break the lamp."

<INSTRUCTION> What di Joan's mother say to her? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Her mother said, Joan, you must take a nap and prevent getting too hot. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Mia put her hand on the cold mirror and started to rub it. As she rubbed, she saw fog appear on the glass and wondered what would happen. She kept rubbing until the fog cleared and suddenly Mia could see her face in the mirror. 

The 3 year old kept recommending the band to everyone and it was really helpful. Soon the band became even more popular and everyone was happy!

Ben agreed. He saw a patch of yellow flowers nearby. They were low and soft. He ran to them and picked one. He gave it to Lily.

Lily thought for a moment and said, "I have an idea! Let's play catch with this ball. You can use your nose to push it to me."

One day, Rachel was spinning around in the living room. She spun around the furniture and around and around it went. She was so happy that she could spin around the furniture without falling down. 

One day, a brave little girl came along. She wanted to explore the folder. She stepped inside the palace, and everything changed. Everything sparkled and glistened in the sun.

"Max, no!" Tom shouts. "You are ruining my suit!"

They looked around and smiled. They were so happy with their new house and what a successful job they had done. 

“Let's explore the ship!� said another one.

Bob had a special trick. He liked to sign with his tiny paws! He would make all sorts of shapes in the air. His friends didn't understand what he was doing, but they all liked to watch.

Louie was so excited, he grabbed the bag and opened it. Inside he found colorful toys, treats and a puppy. His face lit up with joy. 

At the end of the day, everyone said goodbye and thanked the little red grill for the wonderful party. Now, whenever the grill feels lonely, it pours red sauce on itself and has another party!
Once upon a time there was a girl called Sally. Sally was three years old and was very excited one morning because she was going to have a bath. She jumped into the bathtub and lay there in the warm, soapy water. She splashed about, enjoying the feeling of the bubbles on her skin.

One day it was very hot outside, but Joan still wanted to play. Her mother said, Joan, you must take a nap and prevent getting too hot. 

Sam asked Tom to say his name really loudly. Tom said his name and Sam laughed. He thought it was funny and was very pleased that his joke had worked. 

Bee-bee had a secret. It was not a real dolphin. It was a robot dolphin. It was made by a scientist who wanted to study the ocean. But the scientist was not nice. He wanted to use Bee-bee to spy on other dolphins and fish. He put a chip in Bee-bee's head to control it.

That night, Jack couldn't control his curiosity. He told his mom he was going back to the park, so she gave him a hug and said, "Be careful, Jack".

<INSTRUCTION> What were the two sisters doing? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> The two sisters were having so much fun until they heard a loud noise. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Lily and Tom say, "Okay, mom. We are sorry. We will help you. And we will remember to eat our sandwiches and juice next time."

Abbie saw a magical rainbow in the sky. She was filled with joy and ran towards it. As she got closer, a beautiful fairy appeared. The fairy told Abbie that if she wished hard enough, then her wish would come true.

Suddenly, she had an idea and started running around the carpet. She was having lots of fun. 

They went to the kitchen and started to mix the ingredients. Lily's mom noticed that some of her hair had fallen into the cookie dough. She quickly took it out and threw it away, but Lily didn't notice.

Rachel was scared, but she stood her ground. She said, "No! I found it and it is mine now!"

The 3 year old was very sad and never forgot the black record. The 3 year old never saw the old man again.
Once upon a time there was a little girl who loved trips. She woke up one morning and asked her mom, "Can we go on a trip today?" Her Mom smiled and said, "Yes, let's go!" 

The little girl was so happy and excited about her discovery. She knew that the treasure that she found was special and that it had changed her life for the better. She thanked the treasure for its magical power and kept on exploring.
Once upon a time, there was a brave little girl called Mila. Mila was only three years old, but she was very determined. Every day, Mila practiced counting numbers. It made her feel strong and brave.

The journey was long and strange. Everywhere they went, they saw weird things. From flying goats to talking cats, it was a journey like no other. 

When they arrived at the park, Lily saw that there were a lot of people there. Some were playing music, some were playing games, and some were just talking loudly. It was indeed very noisy! But Lily didn't mind, she was having fun with her family. 

The cat felt sad and said, "I am too small to win." The dog thought for a moment and had an idea. "Let's have a race to climb the tree!" The cat was happy and they started climbing.

Mommy smiled when she saw the decorations. She was very proud of Billy and hugged him tight. From then on they would always work together to decorate the porch and make it even more beautiful.
John and Becky were best friends. Everyday, they would go to the park and play. Today, they had something special planned.

First, she walked to the playground. But the park was too quiet and she wanted to find something more exciting. So she continued walking and eventually, she came across a peanut street vendor. The peanuts looked so delicious and smelled so good! Molly was so excited and cheerful, she asked the vendor for some peanuts. 

Sarah said, "Let's pretend we are both stand-ing on the beach and I will pinch your toes!"

Sara thinks for a moment and says, "It lives in the water. It likes to swim and eat fish."

Lily was happy to help and went to the kitchen to prepare dinner. She made her favorite food, spaghetti with tomato sauce. When her mom came back, she was surprised to see that Lily had prepared dinner all by herself. 

"It's lightning," said Mum. "But don't worry, we're safe."

They turn around. They see Mom. She looks angry. She sees the zip and the picture.

Lily poured some lemon juice into a small bowl for Max. He lapped it up and made a funny face. "It's sour, isn't it, Max?" Lily giggled. Max barked softly, "Woof!" They both laughed and enjoyed the lemon juice together.
One day, a little girl named Lucy found a jar of jam. It was her favorite, red and sweet. She wanted to eat it all. But the jar was tough to open. She tried and tried, but it just would not open.

Jack started crawling closer and he could smell the delicious spaghetti. He was about to eat it when suddenly he heard a voice: "No, Jack! You can't eat this spaghetti!" It was Jack's mommy. She had found him trying to eat spaghetti and she knew he was too little to do it on his own.

She quickly jumped up and ran over to Sam. “Look, Sam! Look how beautiful it is!�

"Is the stream trust to play in?" asked Joe.

Sara wants to see the swan closer. She says, "Can I bathe with the swan? Can I touch it?"

Lucy knew she had been naughty, so she put everything back and shut the door quietly. She knew that she must follow the rules to avoid getting into trouble.
Jake and his mum were going to visit Jake's granny. They had come a long way, and they couldn't wait to see her. 

Her mom was understanding and said, "That’s okay. Let’s go and clean them up together. Come on."

At the end of the day, the generous lady smiled. She was happy that she could help make people's day a little brighter.
One day, a hunter was walking through the forest. He was looking for something to bring back home. Suddenly, he heard a noise in the bushes. He stopped to listen. It sounded like something was in trouble.

Once she was inside, Lisa hugged her mommy. "Mommy, I was so scared," she said.

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan learn? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She learnt that she could prevent getting too hot by playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

But when Jack got out of the water, he was crying. He had tears streaming down his face. He had torn his shirt when he jumped in the pool. He was so sad.

Jack frowned and said, "That's not right. You're being too bossy."

They threw away their paper shapes and hugged Mom. Then, they went to sit on the couch. It was a big and soft seat. They liked to sit on it and watch TV or read books. It was a very useful seat. They were happy.
Anna liked to design things. She used paper, crayons, scissors and glue to make pictures and toys. She had a big box of things to design with. She was very happy.

Jill and Tom cry and hurt. They wish they had never asked the big kids to share the swings. They wish they had stayed home and played with their toys. They learn a hard lesson: some people are mean and do not like to share.
Tom and Anna are twins. They like to play pirates and look for treasure. One day, they find a big map in the attic. The map has a red X and many pictures of trees and rocks.

They went outside and played with a ball and some toys. They had so much fun.

But Tom was too excited to listen. He continued to scoop dirt with his hands.

The owl flew at Lily. It wanted to eat her. Lily was scared. She had no way to escape. She closed her eyes. She waited for the end.

Sarah’s mom smiled and said, “That’s very sweet of you, but it’s best we make a promise. We’ll look at the butterfly together so we can appreciate how different it is.� 

The end!
The sun was shining warmly and Ben was playing in the backyard. He liked to jump around and feel the soft grass tickle his toes. He heard a funny noise coming from behind the old tree and he ran to investigate. 
Ben then saw a small fluffy bunny hopping around, it was sooo cute! He wanted to pick it up, but was scared to scare it away. But then he saw the bunny looking straight at him. Ben smiled and asked the bunny; 
"Hi little one, can I play with you?"
Suddenly the bunny hopped away and revealed a hidden hole. Ben ran up to it and peered inside. It was so dark and he couldn't see anything. He called out to the bunny;
"Hello? can you come out? I won't hurt you!"
He looked around the backyard trying to find the bunny, but it was nowhere to be seen. He couldn't believe it. He thought the bunny was his new friend! Suddenly he heard a whisper coming from the hole,
"Come back tomorrow, I'll be waiting for you".
Ben was so excited; he was finally going to have a friend! He knew he wouldn't forget and he would be back the next day for sure.
Mum was very enthusiastic as she prepared for a special day. She was taking her daughter, Maria, to the beach.

One day, her mom made meat for dinner. She put a big piece on Lily's plate. Lily looked at it and felt sick. She pushed her plate away and said, "No, thank you. I do not want meat."

The bad boy didn't listen and kept throwing stones. The little girl began to cry and her parents came over to her. Her father asked her why she was crying.

"Come with me," Luther replied. "I know just the place."

Jon nodded very proudly and said, "Yes! The ship fits just right!"

Lily's mommy gave her medicine and tucked her into bed. Fluffy cuddled up next to her and they both fell asleep. The moral of the story is to always talk to your parents or a doctor if you don't feel well.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to eat popcorn and watch movies. One day, she went to a new school and was feeling weak and shy. She didn't know anyone and felt very lonely.

"Can we swim with the ducks, Mom?" Ben asked.

The rat had performed so well that everyone in the house was so impressed. They all thanked the rat for the wonderful performance. Then the rat said goodbye and scampered away, leaving everyone behind in awe.
Once upon a time, there was a furry friend. His name was Bob. He liked to hide behind the bookcase. Every day, he would peek out and look around.

First, they revealed a gigantic mountain that was so high it reached the clouds. Everyone was amazed by its powerful height.

But soon it was time for bed. Mom told them to brush their teeth and put on their pajamas. Lily and Tom did not want to stop looking at the moon. They begged mom to let them stay up a little longer.

"No, thank you. I'm full," Ben says. He puts the cup and the plate on the tray.

The moral of the story is: never touch something you don't know. It might be dangerous.
There were two very good friends, Josh and Ann. Josh was always eager to open presents, but Ann was usually more clever. 

"Oh Tommy, that is special fridge full of yummy treats!"

His mom smiled. "No, Andy! You're too young to fly a plane. You have to be an adult."

Mum smiled and said, "You know a lot, but you don't know everything. There are still some things that you don't understand. It's better to be safe and stay under the watchful eye of an adult."

But John was a clever boy, so he said, "No, mom. I don't have to wash. I will just buy some new, cheap clothes instead."

The pond became a colorful whirlpool of fun. The little girl was so happy that she danced around with joy. Inside the whirlpool, she found colorful fish, rocks, and some small treasure. 

<INSTRUCTION> What di Joan's mother say to her? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Her mother said, Joan, you must take a nap and prevent getting too hot. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

As Lily walked to the store, she saw a mysterious man with a big hat. He looked at her and said, "Hello little girl, do you want to buy something special?" But Lily knew she had to buy the pot for her mom, so she said no thank you and kept walking.

John and Sam had a great adventure. They learned that hidden things are not always bad, but sometimes they can be fun!
Once upon a time there was a boy called Tim. He was three years old and loved to play with his toys. One day, Tim decided to take a walk outside. As he strolled along, he noticed something strange. It was a big, scary fish swimming in the river!

But just as the bird was about to land, he noticed something that worried him. The fish had started to rot and it made him sad. He flew away in a hurry, but the awful smell followed the bird.

The eagle smiled and said, "Yes, of course!" He then swooped down and the little girl climbed on his back. The eagle flew up and they flew all around in the sky.

"Wow, we can fold our castle very small!" Anna says. "This is another success!"

"Hey, you, stop that!" Tim shouted. "Those are our nuts! We worked hard to find them and organize them!"

"I found a brilliant flame," he said.

The old man heard the quarrel and came outside. He saw the mess Fluffy made. "Fluffy, you must be good," said the old man. Fluffy felt sad and said, "I will be good." From that day on, Fluffy was a good cat and never had a quarrel again.
Once upon a time, there was a smelly dog named Spot. Spot loved to play in the mud and roll around in the dirt. He was a very happy dog, but sometimes he would get very dirty.

The cat only meowed and looked around. Lola couldn't figure out what the stuff was, but she remembered there was something she wanted to do.

"Clara, where did you find that handle?" Clara looked up and saw a tall man with a frown on his face. 

Jack was very proud of himself and he shouted, "I did it! I am so brave!"

Sam says, "I wanted to play with it. It has a good style. My truck is dead."

"Anna, Ben, what did you do?" their mom shouted. She came to the hall and saw the mess. She was very angry and very sad.

Lucy's dad was there too and he was angry. He said to Lucy, "No, no! That is naughty. We don't pet strange dogs. I am going to punish you." 

One day, the little girl wanted to color outside. She was so excited that she ran off to find the perfect spot.

The cat replied, "I'm feeling very cold and hungry. Can I come inside your bedroom?". Jane was so happy to see the cat and she quickly opened the window.

The lion felt very annoyed. It had been so close to catching its dinner. It sat down to think of what else it could do to get food. Suddenly the lion remembered it was young and didn't have to hunt! All it had to do was wait and its mother would come feed it.

The camp was always so much fun, and she could not wait to go back again. Even though the little girl improved her skills each time she went, the camp was always a magical new experience.

Mom shook her head, "No, not today. But you can examine it and see what it looks like."

Sarah's mom hugged her and said, "Don't be scared, sweetie. We're safe now." Sarah smiled and showed her mom the berries she picked. They sat together and enjoyed the delicious berries.
Once upon a time, there was a bunny named Benny. Benny loved to eat carrots and radishes. One day, Benny went to the garden to find some radishes. But all the radishes were gone! Benny was sad.

As they went fast, the sky got dark. The man saw it and felt scared. He said, "We need to go back." The girl was sad but she knew her dad was right.

Tim and Max decided to stir the pot. They put in sand, water, and leaves. They stirred and stirred, laughing and having fun. They didn't know what they were making, but it was a fun game to play.

Lola was no longer ashamed or disappointed. She was happy that her mom replied with a yes!
Once upon a time there was a frog living in a pond. The pond was deep and dark. Every day the frog would swim at the bottom of the pond and watch the world from underneath the water.

The fairy waved her wand and they both disappeared. The fairy took them to the hospital where the doctor put them in an x-ray machine.

Tom and Mia go to Mia's room. They bring the magnet with them. They put it on Mia's nightstand, next to her lamp. They cuddle under the blanket and close their eyes. They dream of more things to stick with the magnet. They are happy.
Lila and Tom were playing with their toys in the garden. Lila had a big doll that she liked very much. Tom had a small car that he liked very much. They were happy and shared their toys.

"No, me! Me!" Ben shouts.

When Jack got to the beach, he was so excited. He started to make a sandcastle. He worked hard to make it perfect.

He flew up high in the sky and even higher than the bird. The two of them flew together, like best friends. The dinosaur finally had a friend and he was so happy. The end.
Once upon a time, there was a kind girl named Jill. Jill had a pet dog who she loved very much. One day, Jill took her dog for a walk and they went to the park.

"Hello, lion. What are you doing?" the monkey asked.

Ben and Lily were upset too. They wanted to see the kangaroos, not the truck. They felt sorry for the baby kangaroo.

Nia nodded in agreement. She knew that it was important to be gentle with things that were different. She smiled and said, "No more disturbing the mints!" 

But when Bob landed, he heard a loud crack sound. He saw that his chubby little body had left the ground and he had sprouted roots. Bob was now a healthy and happy bean plant.

Lily looked around and finally saw Bob's colorful collar behind the bush. She ran to the bush and said, "I found you, Bob! Your collar gave you away!"

The father and son left feeling sad and scared. They walked on into the night not knowing where they could go.

Ben took Rosie to his cave and gave her some honey. Rosie felt better and thanked Ben. They became friends and played together every day. Ben was happy to have a new friend and Rosie was happy to have someone to play with. Even though they were different, they accepted each other and had fun together. The end.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to play with her hoop in the park. One day, while she was playing, she saw a boy with a big, disgusting bug on his shirt. Lily didn't like bugs, but she felt sorry for the boy. She went up to him and said, "Don't worry, I'll kiss the bug goodbye!" And she did! The boy was so happy that he gave Lily a big hug. From that day on, they became good friends and played with their hoops together every day. The end.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Timmy. Timmy loved watching movies with his family. One day, they started watching a movie about a princess and a dragon. Timmy was so excited to watch it!

Anna agreed. She said, "OK, Tom. I will count to ten. One, two, three..." She closed her eyes and started counting. Tom ran away to find a good hiding spot. He hoped Anna would not find him. He also hoped he would not find another frog. He thought, "Hide and seek is fun."
Lily and Anna were best friends. They liked to play with dolls and dress up. One day, they found a pretty box under Lily's bed. It had a lock and a key.

Along the way, Max saw a small rabbit and asked, "Excuse me, have you seen my match?" The Rabbit replied, "No I haven't, but I could help you find it. I know a powerful wizard who could deliver it to you!"

"Maybe our dads will come back soon. Maybe they will play with us and take us to the park. That would be fun, right?" Ben said, trying to cheer Lily up.

Ben looked at Lily and saw that she was upset. He felt sorry for scaring her. He said, "I'm sorry, Lily. I didn't mean to make you feel bad. Do you want me to explain why I like the dark?"

When Jack got to the back of the cabin, he saw smoke! The cabin had caught fire. It was burning so fast; he couldn't do anything to put it out.

Lily was surprised. She did not know Max wanted to play. She was kind and she gave him the balloon. She hoped he would like it.

Finally the chubby olive appeared in a park where a group of little children were playing. They saw the olive and started to chase it around. The chubby olive ran round and round and round until it was too tired and it flopped onto the ground. The children laughed and the chubby olive laughed too. 

She helps Tom clean the track and the trains. She gives him a new cookie and a glass of milk. She tells him he can eat the cookie with her and dad. She tells him he can play with his trains later. She tells him he is a good boy. Tom is happy. He says, "Thank you, mom. I love you. I love dad. I love cookies. I love trains. But they are different."
Sara was very happy today. She was going to visit her aunt Lily, who lived in a big house with a garden. Sara loved her aunt Lily, who always had fun games and yummy snacks for her.

"Sorry, mom. We just wanted to see the shiny thing. We did not mean to be bad," Tom and Mia said.

Ben nodded and sat down next to Anna. They waited patiently, hoping the butterfly would come closer. After a while, the butterfly flew over their heads and landed on a yellow flower next to Anna. Anna and Ben smiled and looked at it with wonder. They could see its eyes, its antennae, and its scales. They did not touch it, but they felt happy. The butterfly stayed on the flower for a few seconds, then flew away.

Soon, they were all zooming around together, eating their yogurt as they had a lot of fun. After that, they all said goodbye and zoomed home. 

Sara proudly carried the vase into her house and showed her family. Everyone was so happy for Sara and congratulated her for her clever idea.
Once upon a time, there was a young girl named Jen. She always liked to skip with her friends in her neighborhood park. One day while skipping, Jen fell and hurt her leg.

The net is fun. It is bouncy and wobbly. Tom and Mia laugh and shout. They try to reach the top of the net. They test their balance and strength. They are strong. They can hold on to the ropes.

One day, mom said that it was time for bed. Jake was so sad to go to bed but he hugged his mom and said, "Goodnight. Thank you for the rough fun I had today watching TV." 
Mom replied and said, "You are so welcome, Jake. Sweet dreams!" 

Soon, Ben was far away from the shore. He looked around and saw the lake was big and beautiful. He saw fish and birds and trees. He smiled and paddled faster.

"Wow, this is so cool," said Sarah.

Timmy said, "Okay, but let's wait until noon. It's too hot right now."

"Sam, you're brave," she said. "You marched to the ocean and saw the fish. But you have to be careful. The ocean has many things that can hurt you. Like crabs and jellyfish and sharks."

"It's time to return home now," said the package.

Jill and Kate played with snow. They made snowballs and snowmen and had fun. Jill was happy to share her gloves with Kate.

Lily and Max started to march like the penguins. They lifted their feet high and swung their arms. They made funny noises with their mouths. They had fun.

When he was done, the little girl said, "Thank you! It looks so different!" The barber smiled and said, "You're welcome! Come back anytime!"  

The young octopus loved his life in the sea. He was always happy. He and his friends played all day long. And when the sun went down, they all went home to rest. The young octopus was always excited for the next day to come.
Once upon a time, in a small village, there was a little boy named Tim. Tim was an obedient boy who always listened to his mom and dad. He loved to play near the small stream that ran through the village. The stream had many pretty stones and fish.

"Little bird, don't worry! I can deliver your song so that everyone in the forest can hear it!" said the voice. It was his best friend, a squirrel. 

"I'm sorry, Sara. I was selfish and greedy. I should not have taken your bracelet. Please forgive me," Lily said.

After the game, Lily's grandma said, "I have a surprise for you!" She took out a big box and opened it. Inside was a cute little puppy! Lily was so happy and gave the puppy a big hug. 

"OK, let's play inside," Ben says.

"Hi, Lily! What are you doing?" her mom asked.

"Come on, Sara, don't be afraid," her dad said. "The park is fun. Let's go and swing together."

At the park, they saw lots of people playing a game. It looked like lots of fun so Jack and Jill asked them what they were playing. The people told them it was called tag. Jack asked, "Can we play too?" The people said yes, so Jack and Jill started playing tag.

The police officer smiled and picked up Timmy. "Don't worry, I'll take you home. But first, let's go to the jail and talk to some people who might have seen you."

They put on their coats and hats. They go to the hill near their house. They sit on the grass and wait. The sky is dark and quiet.

Jack thought for a moment and said, “Let’s make a house! I can use the saw to help build it.�

Lily felt embarrassed because she knew she wasn't supposed to touch the ashtray. She quickly stopped crying and helped her mommy clean up the mess. From then on, Lily learned to listen to her mommy and not touch things she wasn't supposed to.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to play outside and explore the world around her. One day, she wandered too far into the woods and got lost. 

"Come back, frog!" Ben shouted. He was angry. He wanted to play with the frog.

At the end of the day, a smile appeared on the brave coal boat's face as it looked at its new friend. Both boat and voice had had a brave and wonderful adventure together.
Once upon a time, there was a fierce dragon. The dragon had a present that it wouldn't let anyone take. 

The poppy replied in a gentle voice, "Yes, Tom, you may meet me if you'd like."

He ran around the yard and the yarn spun out behind him. It was so much fun! The yarn scattered around the trees and the grass, wrapping around the branches and poking out of the dirt.

<INSTRUCTION> What di Joan's mother say to her? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Her mother said, Joan, you must take a nap and prevent getting too hot. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

The second present was a bit more unusual. It was an oyster! She had never seen one before and the little one was curious. Mommy told her to hold it and feel the smooth surface. Then Mommy showed her how to fold the shell open. Inside was a beautiful pearl! The little girl had never seen anything so pretty before. She was delighted.

"Mom, I touched a cactus and it hurt me," Ben said.

The rabbit replied, "It's nice to meet you too! Let's go and play in the garden".

But the box is a trap. When the cat goes inside, the hole closes. The cat is stuck. Anna and Ben are stuck too. They cannot get out. They are very worried. They cry for help.

Polly and her friends were sad, but she had an idea. She ran inside and came back with a big roll of tape. Carefully, she put two pieces of tape together in the middle of the sandcastle and split it into two again. It was perfect when she finished! 

But then, something strange happened! Anna started to feel a bit dizzy, as if the room were spinning around her. She bent down and put her head on the table.

After the game, Timmy and his dad went to get some ice cream. Timmy's dad asked him, "Did you have fun at the stadium?" Timmy replied, "Yes! I was so excited to see the players and celebrate our team winning!" Timmy went to bed that night dreaming of playing soccer in a big stadium like the players he saw.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Timmy. Timmy loved to play with his toys and his favorite toy was a cricket. He would play with it all day long, but he never took care of it. His mother would always tell him to clean it, but Timmy thought it was too much work.

Lily wanted to try the lemon again. She squeezed it and some juice came out. She mixed it with water and sugar and made a drink. She tasted it and it was sweet and sour. She liked it and smiled. She gave some to Grandma and they drank it together.

When they got home, mama said,"Okay baby, go upstairs and find your old rubber duck. I'm going to draw a bath for you." 




The children enjoyed the special day out and thanked Uncle for the fun time. They knew that whenever Uncle planned an outing, it was always full of fun and adventure!
Once upon a time, there was a bear named Bob. Bob was an ordinary bear who lived in a special forest. Every day, the sun shone on the forest. It made the trees and leaves sparkle.

He got down on his knees and helped Lily look for her car under the sofa. After a while, they found it. It was not broken, just dusty.

The top stopped spinning, but Joe wanted it to keep going. He stepped away and yelled, "I want the top to spin!" 

Lily heard Tom crying. She felt sorry. She realized she had been mean and hurt Tom's feelings. She wanted to say sorry and open the door, but she did not know how. She had locked the door with the key, but she had dropped the key in the sink. She tried to reach it, but it was too far. She also started to cry.

After a while, they took off their blankets. The two brothers looked at each other and smiled. The cheerful brother's face was full of joy! They had so much fun being covered up and giggling like little kids.
Once there was a boy who wanted to go on an adventure. He looked around and saw a big danger! He was so troubled.

Her mom said, "Maybe one day, we can go to the zoo. The zoo has many animals from different places. But we have to be kind and respectful to them. They are not toys. They have feelings and families too."

The little girl became very angry and sad. She asked her mom, "Mom, can you help me fix the crack in the path?"

"Sure, why not. But you have to share it. And don't eat the seed. It's too hard," the lady said.

Little did the girl know that the luck she felt was not enough to keep her safe on her journey. As the little girl started to get close to the next town, a strong wind started to pick up. In no time, a big storm appeared with crashing waves and heavy rain. The little girl soon realized that it was too dangerous to keep going and she was forced to turn back. 

Lily and Ben felt very ashamed and sorry. They did what grandma said. They cleaned up the mess and put the toys back in the box. They said sorry to grandma and to each other. They sat in the corner and thought about what they had done. They realized that they had been very bad and that they had hurt grandma and themselves. They wished they had been more kind and thankful and happy. They wished they had played nicely with the toys and with each other. They wished they had spent more time with grandma and listened to her stories.

The wizard said, "This lemon contains special magic and it will help to restore the village back to its former glory!" 

When it was time to leave, the raven said, "Remember, you can always come back and visit me in the woods!"

"Gotcha!" she said and ran towards him.

Sam was sad to hear this but he wanted to help Annie. He asked her if she wanted to play with his sword.

Suddenly, a friendly voice said, "Don't be frightened little one. That tuna won't hurt you." 

"Be careful, Ben!" Lily said. She saw a sign that said "No wagons near the pond". She was afraid they would fall in the water.

Mom hears the noise and comes to see what happened. She sees the broken video and the sad children. She is not happy. She says, "Sara and Ben, you should not tear the video. That is not nice. You should be modest and take turns. Now you cannot watch any video today. Go to your rooms and think about what you did."

"Me too," Ben says. "But we have to be good and wait. The teacher will tell us when we can use the stickers."

After a while, the little girl got tired and felt very dizzy. She plopped onto the ground and took a quick break, which seemed like forever. 

"No, thank you, Grandma. I don't want celery," he said.

Mum smiled too and said, “That’s right, he will take our treasure away.� 

"Thanks, mom. You have a lot of wisdom. You always help me when I'm scared," Mia said, looking at her mom with love.

One day, he found a zipper in the grass. It was shimmering in the sun. He wanted to see what was hidden inside.

The jewel winked and said, “See you tomorrow! We’ll roll and spin together again!�

"Who is in the black car?" Tom asks Mia.

"Look, this is Grandma and Grandpa," Lily said, showing Max a photo. "They are very nice and give us hugs and cookies."

Later that night, Timmy's mom asked him how he felt about rescuing the bird. 

The big bird wanted to stay and help the baby bird, so he made a nest nearby. He was happy to be helping, but soon he started to regret it. Every day the nest needed more repairs, and it took a lot of time and effort.

Then something funny happened. The bug flexed its little red muscle and jumped into the air. 

<INSTRUCTION> What were the two sisters doing? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> The two sisters were having so much fun until they heard a loud noise. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Her mom replied, "They will grow into beautiful flowers." 

Eventually, she found a much thinner part of the path. She managed to get her cart through it. She was so happy that she clapped her hands and did a little dance. Finally, she had managed to get her cart through the thick part of the path!
Molly loved cocoa. It was her favorite treat! Every day, she would try to get some cocoa.

Suddenly, a wind swept through the field, knocking down all their hay.

<INSTRUCTION> What were the two sisters doing? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> The two sisters were having so much fun until they heard a loud noise. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Lily and Ben did not let go. They made the big boy get off the swing. They got on the swing together and smiled.

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan learn? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She learnt that she could prevent getting too hot by playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Macy and the frog worked together to clean the pond. They picked out the leaves and the sticks, and popped the bubbles in the water. Macy was so curious about the frog's life, she asked him lots of questions while they worked.

Rosie begged her mom, but her mom still said no. That's when Rosie realized that she needed to find a way to get money to buy the lollipop.

He kept jogging and visited all kinds of places. Everywhere he went, he had the most amazing adventures. Whenever he thought about the jet, he felt so grateful. He thanked the pilot for making his day so special.
Once upon a time, there lived a princess. Her name was Anna. Every day, she went for a walk in the woods near her kingdom. 

John and his mom watched it fly away until it was out of sight. They had a lot of fun that day, and John would never forget the call of the bright yellow bird.
Once upon a time, there was a soft clown living in the park. Every day, he would jump and laugh while the sun shone and glowed in the sky.

The two friends picked out some tools and took them to Roger's backyard. They added the tools to the clay in the backyard and began making a sculpture. They worked hard and it soon became a beautiful sculpture.

The frog smiled and hopped along. Lily smiled too and together, they made a beautiful trail in the woods.
Once upon a time there was a little boy named Tom. Tom loved to roll around outside with his friends. Every day they rolled together through the grass and laughed.

When he got home, he realized he didn't have his hat. He was very sad because it was his favorite hat. He decided to return to the restaurant to look for it. When he got there, he asked the waitress if she had seen his hat. She smiled and said, "Yes! It's right here!" 

As they worked, Jane felt less nervous. She saw that the cut was not so scary. Soon, the picture was done. Jane and Sue smiled. They knew their mom would love it.
Once upon a time, there was a big, round pumpkin. It was very interesting. The pumpkin had a happy face. It liked to be with other pumpkins in the garden.

The two little bunnies looked at each other and hugged the white rabbit. 

But then, Anna slips on the ice and falls down. She hurts her leg and cries. Ben runs to her and tries to help her. He says, "Are you okay, Anna? Does it hurt a lot?"

After combing her hair, Lily saw that her hair was still wet. She remembered that her mom always used a towel to dry her hair. So, Lily grabbed a towel and carefully dried her hair until it was not wet anymore. She felt proud and happy that she could get ready all by herself. Her mom and dad were proud of her too, and they all had a great day together.
One day, a yellow bird was flying in the sky. The bird saw a cop on the street. The cop was doing his job. He was looking for bad people. The bird liked to watch the cop work.

One of the adults in the parade saw the little girl and gave her a big smile. "Come on" he said, diving into the parade, "Come join the fun!"

The two brothers stopped and looked nervously at their mom. She said firmly, “I will not let you quarrel. You need to work it out together.�

He ran back home and gathered a group of people together. He held up the spike and said, "Look what I found!" Everyone was so excited to see the ancient spike.

"Mommy won't find out. And we won't get a tummy ache. It is just a fruit, like an apple or a banana. Come on, Lily, don't be a baby. Have one," Tom said.

One day, while she was patrolling the forest, she saw a shiny medal lying on the ground. She was very excited! She quickly grabbed it and held it up to the sky.

They ran to the fence and looked at the turkey. The turkey looked at them too. It opened its mouth and said "gobble gobble". Ben and Lily laughed. They thought the turkey was funny.

He kept on climbing up and up until he reached the top. Now he could look out of the window and see everything. It was so exciting! 

The old man smiled at the boy and said, "What are you doing, young man? Are you trying to give me a haircut?" 

Tom runs to the slide and climbs up the ladder. He sits on the top and slides down. He laughs and shouts, "Whee! That was awesome!"

When she was done storing, she would always take time to appreciate the earth. She loved how it was smooth and gentle, and a great place to store her things.
Once upon a time, there were two friends named Max and Lucy who were walking in the park. Max was looking around and noticed a cell on the ground. He picked it up and said to Lucy, “Look! I found an amazing cell.�

One day, a little girl was riding on the train. She had a nice lollipop and she was chewing it with her teeth. The lollipop was so yummy and sweet.

The King was very angry. He said, "For breaking my rules, you must go away for a long time." The soldier was sad, but he knew he had to obey the King. 

"Yes, let's play another game," Sam said. "Maybe we can both win this time."
Tim and Mia were playing in the park. They liked to dig in the sand and make castles. They also liked to find pebbles and put them on their castles. Pebbles were shiny and smooth and pretty.

The moral of the story is: Don't panic when you face a challenge. You can learn and overcome it. You can use what you know and what you have to help you. You are not alone. You have friends and teachers who care for you and support you.
Sara and Ben were very happy. It was Tuesday and they had no school. They wanted to decorate their room with red things. They liked red because it was bright and fun.

So, Lynne thought carefully, and decided to buy a brush for her dolls. She went up to the counter and paid for her brush with her own money.

Ralph agreed and started counting while Max went to hide. Ralph looked everywhere but couldn't find Max. Suddenly, he heard Max giggling behind a bush. Ralph found him and said, "You're very good at hiding, Max. Your hiding skills increase every time we play."

"Wow, so many trains!" Lily says.

When the walls and roof were ready, Sarah used a paintbrush to paint the outside. Tony helped her. They painted it green and blue.

"Help!" Lily cried. She pretended the car caught her. "Save me, knight!"

Clara asked her mom what the notes were and her mother said, "These are called notes, and they are very special. We can collect them!"

The big horse, the small dog, and the tiny mouse all worked together to help the man. The big horse pulled the cart, the small dog pushed, and the tiny mouse cheered them on. Soon, the cart was out of the mud.

Mom smiled and said something important, “Jill, it's ok to want to speed up sometimes, but know that it's best to go slow. That way you can take the time to do a good job and make sure everything is the way you want it.� 

Then Nora saw a small bunny hopping in the grass. She giggled and smiled, and she softly called the bunny over to her. The bunny hopped closer and closer until it was right beside her. Nora was so happy, so she bent down and kissed the bunny on its nose.

So the two friends unpacked their bags. Inside, there were lots of new, exciting things from the new country. They couldn't wait to explore and have fun.

"The stars?" he whispered. "But there are too many stars to count, Lily. They never end. They go on and on and on."

John said, "It's done!" 

As he roamed, the wild smelly bear found a delicious berry bush and decided to stay and eat some of the yummy fruit. After eating all of the berries, the bear was so full that he decided to take a nap in a sunny clearing.

Lily felt very happy. She said, "You're welcome, mom. I'm glad you like it. Can we wear it together when we cook?"

Lily was sad. She did not want to clean it up. She said, "But mom, I wanted to draw. The paper was boring. I made it pretty. Please, let me keep it."

Timmy regretted racing and not being honest with his friend. He learned that it's better to be truthful than to try to impress others. From then on, they played together and had fun without any competition.
Once upon a time, there was a happy boy named Tim. Tim loved waffles and ate them every day for breakfast. One day, Tim spilled some juice on his shirt and it made him sad. 

"Yuck!" Lily said. "Who put this here? It is not nice for the ducks or the people."

Benny asked his friends if they had seen his pencil, but nobody knew where it was. Benny felt frustrated and didn't want to do his work without his special pencil. Suddenly, Benny saw a little mouse with his pencil in the corner of the classroom. Benny didn't want to be mean, but he needed his pencil back.

"Thank you for finding this for me," said Mom. "You're so smart and I'm so proud of you."

The baby boy was very thoughtful. He wanted to do something special with the piece of paper. So he decided to draw a picture with it. He used a green and blue crayon to draw on the piece of paper. He had lots of fun making the picture.

"Why are you alone here?" asked the truck.

"Yes, Mom," Sam and Lily nodded. They felt sorry and ashamed. They learned their lesson. They decided to play with safer toys and stay away from the attic. They also decided to read the ancient book together and learn more about knights and dragons and castles. They thought it was more fun and less risky.
Ben was hungry. He wanted a snack. He went to the kitchen and opened the refrigerator. He saw a big cake with pink frosting. It looked yummy. He reached for it.

After that, the hunter and the bunny were best friends. The hunter would often bring food for the bunny and take long walks together. They were never embarrassed when they were together. They were happy to be friends forever.
John was a cool kid who liked to explore. One day he was with his mom in the big building and saw an elevator. It looked like a metal box and he wondered what it was. Mom explained that it was an elevator and it could take people to different floors of the building. John was excited and wanted to try it out. 

<INSTRUCTION> What idea did Joan have? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She had an idea about going out to the park again, and playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

<INSTRUCTION> What were the two sisters doing? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> The two sisters were having so much fun until they heard a loud noise. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Emma had done it! She had broken the record! Everyone was so proud of her and gave her lots of hugs. It was the best day ever!
Once upon a time, there was a frightened leopard. He was always afraid of things in the jungle. One day, he decided to pay a visit to his friend, the elephant. As he was walking, he heard a loud noise. He got so scared that he ran away as fast as he could.

Tim went to his friend, Sarah, and said, "Let's start the race!" Sarah smiled and said, "Yes, let's go!" They lined up with the other kids and waited for the race to begin. When they heard the word "Go!", they started running as fast as they could.

Later, Max saw a cat stuck in the tree he leaned on before. He barked to call the cop. The cop came and helped the cat down. Max and the cop were both happy they could help the cat. The cat was safe, and they all became good friends.
One day, a little boy named Tim wanted to travel with his mom. He was very excited. He took his toy car, his teddy bear, and his thermometer. Tim was a persistent little boy.

"Mom, dad, look! Bees!" she cried. "I don't want to go to the park!"

The boy never forgot his special adventure and he was no longer troubled. He had a secret all of his own that he could tell nobody about. And it made him feel better every time he thought about it.  The end.
Once upon a time, there was a patient bear named Bob. Bob was a very kind bear, always wanting to help his friends. One day, Bob went to sit in his chair waiting for a special surprise. His friends all gathered around, excited for Bob to see what had come for him. 

The birds were all chirping, excited for the start of the day. The animals were all walking around, ready for their new adventure.

The little girl and the snake played together all day. They had so much fun! When it was time to go home, the little girl said goodbye and gave the snake a big hug. 

"Let me see!" Mia said, reaching for the gold. "Maybe we can buy candy with it!"

The child was very intrigued and asked again, "What should we do to take care of it?" The mom thought for a moment and said, "We can go outside and play in the sun, it will make us feel good. And we can also cut back on things that harm the environment, so the sun will last forever." 

After a while, the child had gotten so good at telling jokes, that people were soon coming from other parts of the park to listen to her funny stories. People would smile and laugh and even the adults would be amazed by her ability to make them smile. 

Tommy loved the truck. He ran to it and touched it. He looked at the driver. He was wearing a helmet and a jacket. He had a badge and a smile. He said, "Hello, little boy. Do you like my truck?"

The End.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Kate. She was playing in the park with her toy soldier. She loved to pull it around and make it walk like a real soldier.

Amy felt much better when her Mommy held her. She knew she felt safe and loved in her Mommy's arms.

The end.
Once upon a time there was a big bear. He lived in a sunny meadow with a lot of other animals. Every morning he would go out for a walk.

The fairy had a magical spell. She used it to make the car brand new again. She waved her wand twice and the wheel came back! The little car was so happy, it started to tear.
Once there was a family who had two children, a brother and a sister. The brother and the sister would often disagree on things. One day their mom said they needed to get water from the well. The brother wanted to compete and race to see who could get the water from the well first. The sister did not like this idea. She wanted to take turns and go together. They got very competitive discussing what to do, but eventually agreed to take turns. So the brother and the sister took turns going to the well and returning with water for the family. They both had fun and learned that everyone could be happy when they disagree.
One day, a woman was walking in the park. Her eyes sparkled as she saw a brown bird in the tree. She smiled and laughed. Then, she went to the playground to laugh again. She saw a little boy laughing on the swings. She laughed too. Soon they were both laughing and having a good time.

Daddy laughed and hugged her back. He said, "Thank you, Mandy! That was a very high port!"
Mikey and Mandy were very excited. They had been invited to their grandparents’ house for the summer. Grandma and Grandpa had a beautiful garden with a big, colorful square in the middle.

Johnny felt so guilty when he saw the waiter running around, trying to make the pizza. He felt like he had asked for too much.

Lily was excited to learn more about exercise, so she asked her friends if they wanted to play a game of tag. They ran and laughed and had so much fun. After they were done, Lily felt tired but happy. She told her mommy, "I learned that exercise is fun and makes me feel good!"

Timmy's car was very fast, but Billy's car was difficult to control. They raced down the hallway, but suddenly Billy's car hit a bump and it flew into the air. It landed on Timmy's car and they both crashed. 

He was so scared he ran back inside the house. He didn't want to go back outside again.

Tommy was still scared, but he tried to be brave like Lily said. They walked past the dog and it didn't even bark at them. 

The boy and Lily became friends. They played with the truck and the doll. They had fun. They did not spoil their toys. They shared their toys. They were happy.
Lily and Max are twins. They like to play together. But on Wednesday, they have to go to school. They do not like school. School is hard and boring.

One day, Sarah's dad said to her, "Let's play bury the flower!" Sarah smiled and ran to get the flower. Together, they put the flower in a hole and Sarah started to cover it with dirt.

But Lily wanted to feel the waves on her feet, so she ran towards the water. Suddenly, a big wave came and hit her hard. Lily fell down and got wet. She was scared and cried for her mom.

"Don't cry, Mia," Tom says. He hugs her. "It's okay. It was an accident. You can change your dress."

Jack was excited. He grabbed the net and started to load the boat. With each fish, his score improved. 

"Thank you, little girl. You are compassionate. You share your food with me. You are my friend."

So Lucy called out to the grass and flowers, "Will you help me relax today?"

"Oh no!" Tim says. "The pool is broken! We can't swim now!"

Ben and Lily felt sorry. They said, "Sorry, Mom. Sorry, Daddy. We didn't mean to break the belt. We will share our toys."

"Anna said my doll looks silly," Ben says.

Everyone gathered around the flower to see what had happened. The flower was shrinking even smaller as they watched. Suddenly, the flower disappeared! It was gone. Everyone was so amazed. They had never seen anything like it. 

The monster banged on the door, trying to get in, but Timmy was safe inside. He felt very proud of himself for finding a place to hide. Timmy waited for a long time until he was sure the monster was gone. Then he opened the door and ran out of the castle, feeling very brave.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to skip around her farm, playing with all the animals. One day, she found a big pile of corn. It was yellow and smelled so good. She decided to pick some and take it to her mom to make popcorn.

"Okay, that sounds fun," Lily said. "You go first."

<INSTRUCTION> What idea did Joan have? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She had an idea about going out to the park again, and playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Jane's father smiled. "That sounds like a great idea! You can have fun while doing chores."

Sam was quite happy, and ran around the farm as fast as ever. He always remembered to thank the elephant for fixing him, and he still runs around the farm everyday with a smile on his face.
Daddy and his daughter were playing together in their living room. She was so excited to see daddy, she just kept running and laughing. 

Bessy kept walking. Then she saw a dog. The dog was hot too. She waved and the dog waved back. The dog ran around her in circles. It was so fun that she waved again and again. 

The kid grinned from ear-to-ear, and said, "Time to give the present away!"
Once upon a time there was a little boy named Max. Max was three year old and he was always quite nervous. 

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan wanted to do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Joan still wanted to play. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

"No way!", said Anne. "I want to play my game now."

Lily wanted to learn how to make a big bubble that wouldn't pop. She asked her mom for help. Her mom showed her how to blow air into the soap to make a big bubble. Lily was so happy that she learned something new!

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan learn? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She learnt that she could prevent getting too hot by playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

But then there was a big, loud noise, like a giant sneeze, and the plane stopped shaking. Everyone was happy and started laughing. They thanked the pilot for flying them safely back home and everyone hugged each other. 

Ben nods. He sees a little light at the end of the tunnel. He feels brave. He says, "Yeah, Lily, you're right. It's not so bad. It's kind of fun."

Tim's mom saw them with the pill and came over to see what they had found. She told them that it was not safe to play with things they did not know. She took the pill and threw it away. Tim and his friends learned that it is important to always be safe and not play with things they do not know.
One day, a furry cat named Tom went for a walk. He saw a broken toy car on the ground. Tom wanted to help, so he tried to fix the toy car. He pushed and pulled, but the toy car was still broken.

The eraser was saved and everyone enjoyed their delicious treats!
Once upon a time, there was a little boy who had an obedient goat. He loved taking care of the goat, feeding it its favourite vegetables and playing with him in the garden.

Lily's mom saw what happened. She came to Lily and said, "Don't cry, Lily. It's okay. The doll is not broken. We can wash her face and fix her dress. You were trying to teach her something new, and that's very nice of you. But maybe the bike is not the best toy for the doll. How about we find something else to play with?"

Jane looked around, but she couldn’t see where the voice was coming from. She gulped and felt a bit scared.

From that day on, Lily brushed her hair every day with her new brush and she was very happy. She understood that even though things can break, there is always a way to fix them or find something new to replace them.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily who loved to watch videos. One day, her mom showed her a funny video of a cat playing with a ball of yarn. Lily laughed and laughed at the silly cat.

Max did not understand. He looked at Lily and then at Grandma.

<INSTRUCTION> What Anna and Bella do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Anna and Bella laughed, knowing that the table in the garden was a very special place. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

The little girl turned around and saw a big red fox. "Don't be scared," said the fox. "I only want to help you pick the strawberries." The girl smiled and the fox showed her where the strawberries were.

Gaby blushed and thanked them. She was glad they were all okay.

At the end of the day, Daisy packed her school bag and said goodbye to everyone. Daisy was so happy that she had been able to be independent and had a great day at school.
Once upon a time, there were two friends, Jack and Jill. Jack wanted to go fill their pot with water from the stream. So off they went, carrying their pot between them.

Back at the castle, the queen went up to her room feeling less frustrated than before. The queen had enjoyed a fun afternoon!
Once there was a little girl who loved to climb. One day, she decided to climb an old tree. She made it to the top where she found an ancient book. She knew it was very special and she grabbed it. But, when she tried to climb back down, she started to slip. She tried to grab the branches, but they broke and she fell to the ground with the ancient book in her hand. The little girl was sad. She had broken the ancient book. It wouldn’t be special anymore.
Once upon a time there was a big, dark fog. It was so foggy that no one could even see their hands. Everyone was scared and tried to stay inside, but one compassionate girl had to go outside. She went to the market to buy food for her family. On her way, she saw something strange. She stepped closer and saw that it was a little door, shut tight. She wondered what was inside, but felt too scared to open it. 

Sam and Lily hung up the phone and smiled. They were happy they could help each other. They continued to play with their toys and imagined they were saving lives and solving problems. They did not notice their mom watching them from the kitchen. She was proud of her children and their big dreams.
Lila was playing with her dolls in her room. She liked to make them talk and dress them up. She heard her mother call her from the kitchen. "Lila, can you help me, please?" Mother said.

She continued wrapping the thread until the bear was completely covered. Sue was very proud of her work.

But they were not clever and funny. They were naughty and rude. They did not know that Mom was coming home soon. They did not know that Mom loved cake and wanted to share it with them. They did not know that Mom would be very angry and sad when she saw what they did.

Anna and Ben did not like this. They wanted to go to the park and have the picnic. They looked at each other and decided to listen to mom. They said, "Okay, mom, we will wash. We are sorry for being rude. We love you and we want to make you happy."

Their dad hugs them back. He is glad they are not hurt. He tells them to never touch the fuel again. He tells them to relax and calm down. He takes them inside to have some juice and cookies.

Her little brother, Max, saw it and said, "Wow, Lily! That's so high!"

"I know, Sara," Tom said. "I am sad too. But we can make another snowman when it snows again. And we can get a new notebook and draw more pictures."

Mom explained, "Gills are like little slits on the sides of the fish. They let the water in and out, and take the air from the water. They are different from lungs, which are like big bags inside us. We breathe air from the air, not from the water."

The little girl felt excited. She couldn't wait to explore the magical nut! She said a big thank you to the light, and went off to look at the nut up close.
Once upon a time there was a boy named Youth. He was only three years old and had soft, curly hair. One day, Youth decided to go exploring. He touched every flower he came across. He touched the leaves on the trees and even the rocks he found. 

When they came back from the store, Tommy saw his little sister, Lily, sitting on his bed. She was holding the envelope and the card. She looked at Tommy with a guilty face and said, "I'm sorry, Tommy. I was curious. I wanted to see what grandma sent you. I didn't mean to take your coin."

The police man says, "It is okay. I know you did not mean to be bad. But you have to be careful. The puddle is dirty and can make you sick. And you can get hurt if you slip and fall. Next time, play somewhere else."

When they opened their eyes, they saw that the can was open! Mia and Luna were so happy. They sat down and shared the tasty tuna. From that day on, they always remembered to pray and be thankful for the good things in their lives.
One day, a little duck named Tim went on an adventurous walk. He loved to splash in the water and play with his friends. The sun was shining and the sky was blue. Tim was very happy.

Tim nodded, but as soon as his mum went inside, he started running around and trying to play with the animals. One of the horses, who was called Snow, got scared and started making even more noise. Tim's mum heard the noise and came running back outside. 

So they got in their car and parked it near the shop. When they got out, Lynne took her mom's hand and they walked to the shop.

Amy was excited and she grabbed the key. She put it into the lock and twisted it. The lock clicked open!

"Well, you need to be more careful next time," Lily said as she closed the refrigerator door. "Now, let's go play outside!"
Once upon a time, there was a big stadium. It was where people went to watch sports games. One day, a little girl went to the stadium with her family. She saw the grass on the field and it was very green. She also saw a man with a hairy beard selling popcorn. 

Billy was scared and ran to his room. His mommy came in and said, "Why did you shake daddy's pistol? That's very naughty!"

The boy looked at Lily and said, "No, she is mine! I like her! She is pretty!"

The boy smiled and jumped down into the pit. He spun around and around, just like the yellow bird. They danced and laughed until the stars came out.

As Ben hopped along he came to a hedge that he had never seen before. It was tall and green and Ben thought it looked safe. He carefully hopped through a tiny gap in the hedge and was surprised at how much brighter and sunnier the other side was! 

A nice lady came to them. She saw what happened. She gave them a hug and a cookie. She told them not to worry. The balloon was just air and rubber. It could not hurt them.

When he was finished, a feeling of peace came into the room. Timmy smiled and laid down on the bed. He was so happy to have finished tidying the room.

The thin stone started pushing itself. It worked really hard, pushing and rolling and scraping. Every day, the stone got a little bit bigger and bigger. Soon, it was rolling all around the park, shouting with happiness. 

The little girl smiled and nodded. She was glad she had come to visit Grandma and Grandpa because she had learned so much.
Once upon a time there was a gifted girl called Daisy. She wanted to be like the other children and play with them on the playground. She saw a pole and thought it would be fun to swing.

Susie bent down and said to the dust bunny, "Hello, who are you?"

The cupboard was full of toys. He found a teddy bear, a doll, a truck, and lots of other fun things. He was so happy! He grabbed the teddy bear and started playing with it.

"Don't worry," said the rabbit. "I have an extra coat you can borrow." 

Susie decided to take her shell and explore the other parts of the beach. She wanted to find more shells like the one she was holding. She looked and looked and eventually found another shell, but this one was bigger than the one she already had! 

Marlon's mum hugged him tightly and said, "Don't worry, Marlon. You'll be a great astronaut one day!" Marlon smiled and hugged her back. He now knew that he needed to remember the right things when making his spaceship!
One day, a little boy named Bob saw an ordinary thief. Bob was scared and quickly ran away. The thief looked at Bob and smiled. Bob decided to tell his family about the thief. He said, "A thief was here. He had a pinch."

Lily felt sad and angry. She did not like the boy. She said, "No, your kite is not better. My kite is faster and stronger. I will show you." She ran and pulled her kite hard. She wanted to make it soar higher than the boy's kite.

On one of his adventures, he decided to go for a walk in the woods. As he walked, he stumbled upon a clearing. There in the clearing he saw a bird, injured and in need of healing. Jimmy felt so sorry for the poor bird and he decided to help.

Twig said to the nearby fox, "This is no fun! I want to jump, fly and sing but I can't with all this lumber here."

They are happy. They smile and laugh. They play with the smooth stone. They throw it in the water and watch it sink. They find another smooth stone and do it again. They have fun at the creek. They are good friends.
Sara likes to sing. She sings in the morning, in the afternoon, and at night. She sings to her toys, to her mom, and to her dad. She sings happy songs, silly songs, and sad songs.

One day, a little girl named Sarah was walking past, when she heard two voices coming from the wall. She stopped to listen, and realised that it was coming from a cat and a bird who were both sitting on the wall.

<INSTRUCTION> What di Joan's mother say to her? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Her mother said, Joan, you must take a nap and prevent getting too hot. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

One day the silly belt was in a kingdom with a bad king. The king was very mean and made everyone do what he said. He wanted everyone to surrender to his will.

He said to Sally, "Let's take it home". 

"Wow, it so big!" said Maria.

<INSTRUCTION> What Anna and Bella do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Anna and Bella laughed, knowing that the table in the garden was a very special place. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

So each day, Pam would take a walk in a special place, a field near her home. Every day when she walked in this field, she'd take a sack with her.

Billy found some friends and they started searching the park. After a few hours, they finally found the silver coin! Billy was so relieved, and he quickly ran home to show his dad.

They take turns holding the smooth stone. It feels cold and wet. They hear the water make sounds. Splash, splash, splash. They hear the birds sing. Tweet, tweet, tweet. They hear the wind blow. Whoosh, whoosh, whoosh.

Tom replied, "Don't worry, I have an idea. I hope we can get into the opera. I have a friend who works there. She is a generous person, I'm sure she will help us."

"Yes, it's pretty heavy," said Grandma.

The next morning, Silly found out that the noise he'd heard was actually a baby polar bear. He was very embarrassed he'd been so scared. From then on, Silly was known as the 'silly reindeer'. 

The little boy exclaimed, "It looks beautiful now! Thank you for teaching me how to polish it!"

Ted was baffled but he decided to give it a try. He started to draw pictures on the mug with a red crayon. He felt happy and proud as he completed the mug.

<INSTRUCTION> What Anna and Bella do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Anna and Bella laughed, knowing that the table in the garden was a very special place. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Bo was excited. He said, “Can I have it? Please?�
Mama and Papa laughed. Papa said, “No, Bo, we can’t spoil you.�

Tim was very sad. He wanted to make the mirror look like new. But he didn't know what to do. He asked his mom for help. She told him to take out the tool box and find the sharp knife.

Jimmy thanked the truck driver again and happily wrapped himself in the warm blanket. He got back on his bike and continued pedaling. He was already looking forward to his next ride!
Once there was a young girl called Louisa. She had bright eyes and big ears. Every morning, she ran to the lake to bathe.

The naughty square was a wild place. All sorts of animals lived there, but the little boy wanted to explore. He saw a rabbit and tried to catch it, but it hopped away just in time.

One day, Amy decided to teach Max how to paint. She gave Max a brush and showed him how to dip it in the paint. Max tried to hold the brush in his paw, but it was hard. Amy was patient and helped Max learn.

One day, she and her mother went to the beach to find a kayak. They spotted a fair kayak with vibrant colors. 

"Can I go to the play area?" asked Sam, pointing to a tall slide.

Max watches them from his bed. He feels sorry. He wishes he did not bite Tom's suit. He wishes he did not make them angry. He hopes they will come back soon. He hopes they will feed him and play with him. He loves them too.
Ben and Lily are twins. They like to play in the park with their mom. One day, they see a big black dog in the park. The dog is friendly and wags its tail.

Fin's friends loved the fancy shell. They thanked the wave and Fin. They all learned that it is good to ask for help when you need it. And they lived happily ever after.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Tim and his baby brother, Sam. They lived in a house with a high tree in the yard. Tim loved to climb the high tree and look at the sky.

But then Lucy remembered that she didn't have any money with her. She felt so sad and alone. She thought she would never get to have a pastry.

“Are you ready, John?� asked his mom.

Their dad nodded and said, "Sure, you can. But first, you have to choose. Do you want to draw or write?"

But the ice cream was bad. It had germs and bugs in it. Lily and Ben did not see them. They ate the ice cream and felt sick. They had a tummy ache and a headache. They wanted to go to the bathroom.

After a while, they came back to the first room. "This is a nice room, Charlie," said his Mommy.

The next day, a little girl named Lily went for a walk in the park. She saw a smooth stone on the ground and picked it up. As she was walking, she saw something colorful in the bushes. It was the flag! Lily was so happy that she found it.

Amelia walked a little closer and saw a small face peeking out of the cave. She stopped and looked carefully. She knew he was a dangerous creature, but Amelia was not scared.

The harbor and the ducks had plenty of love, food and fun to share. Everyone who visited the harbor was happy, and everyone left feeling full of joy. 
The harbor was forever known as the Sharing Harbor - the place to be for love, food and fun!
Jane and Bob were playing in the park. Jane wanted to hold the pretty bull that was walking around. But Bob said it was too big and he thought it might hurt them. So, instead, he offered to show Jane his reliable pet cat. 

The puppy was wagging its tail wildly and seemed so happy to be back with Lucy. They ran and played together in the garden all day, until it was time for Lucy to go inside. 

To her surprise, the monster answered the door. He was still angry, but Lily smiled and said hello. She asked the monster if he wanted to play a game with her. The monster was hesitant at first, but he eventually agreed. Lily led the monster on a fun adventure through the forest, and they both had a great time. From that day on, the monster wasn't so angry anymore.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Timmy. He was playing with his toys when suddenly he felt his tummy rumble. He needed to go to the bathroom. 

But, in that moment, the reindeer jumped off the cliff and vanished from sight. The man was shocked and saddened. He thought he would never see the reindeer again. He softly said, "You can't belong to me anymore."
One day, Mommy and Max went walking in the park. Max saw something funny while they were walking - it was a pepper! He ran over to get a closer look.

The driver smiles and turns off the switch. The noise stops. The park is quiet again.

Later that day, Timmy's friend Johnny came over to play. Johnny saw the piece of iron in Timmy's pocket and said, "Wow, that's cool! Can I have it?"

They start to clean up their toys. They put them in boxes and baskets and bags. They make a game of it. They see who can clean faster and who can clean more. They laugh and cheer and sing. They are very loud.

The monster was surprised by Furry's bravery and kindness. He gave Furry back his toy and they became friends. From that day on, Furry learned to share his toys and not eat too many beans. The end.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to eat rice for dinner every day. One day, her mom made a lovely bowl of rice with some vegetables. Lily sat down to eat, but she didn't feel like eating the vegetables.

Lily became persistent and kept trying to make the TV work. She even asked her daddy to help, but he couldn't fix it either. Lily was sad because she couldn't watch her favorite show.

One day, a little 3-year-old girl happened to see the pine tree dancing in the moonlight. She stopped and watched in awe as the tree moved. She couldn’t believe how impressive it looked! She wanted to join in, so she started to dance around the tree, spinning and twirling. Soon, she was part of the amazing show!

Sue's mom heard her crying and came to see what was wrong. "What happened, Sue?" her mom asked. Sue showed her the broken toy car and said, "It had a big fall and now it's in two parts."

Sadie looked up with a big smile on her face. She was so happy that her mom wasn't mad at her. Her mom hugged her and said, "It's important to follow the rules, Sadie. Otherwise, we'll both feel guilty."

Jill and Tom feel sad and angry. They decide to ask the big kids to share the swings. They walk up to the leader and say, "Please, can we swing too? We like to swing, and we have been waiting."

Mum: "Yes, it is! Now you know that some mysterious things are not always scary."
Once there was a little girl. She was very thoughtful and always tried to do the right thing. One morning, something strange happened. She wanted to know the truth! She thought and thought and thought, but she couldn't understand. 

Benny had never heard of a race before, but he was determined to win the trophy. He asked the squirrel how to enter the race, and the squirrel told him that he had to run through the forest and cross the finish line first. Benny practiced taking big steps and running fast, and on the day of the race, he was ready.

When Mia took the cake out of the oven, she heard music and noise. Mia smiled as she ate her cake. She knew that as long as she kept baking, she would never have to be deaf again.
Once upon a time there was a little girl. Her name was Lucy. She was three years old and loved to imagine things.

The end.
Lily and Tom are playing hide and seek in the park. Lily is the seeker and Tom is the hider. Tom runs behind a big tree and waits for Lily to find him. He hears Lily counting to ten.

Mama and Papa were amazed. Papa said, "I bet it must have taken a long time to build that tower!"

But Billy was selfish and didn't want to share his jet with Timmy. Timmy felt sad and didn't know what to do. 

"Let's go inside," Tom said. He was brave and curious.

Tim and Sue played together every day. They learned that they could both be happy doing exercise and playing with fake toys. They were the best of friends and had lots of fun. And that is how Tim and Sue learned to share and enjoy each other's games.
Once upon a time, there was a big wild bird. His name was Bobo. Bobo liked to fly high in the sky. He loved to say hello to his friends.

The end.
Lily and Ben are kids who like to play outside. They have a big yard with a swing, a slide and a sandbox. They also have a dog named Spot who likes to run and bark.

Suddenly, a storm blew in. The dragon used his powerful wings to cover all of his friends, and he kept them all safe from the bad weather. After the storm passed, his friends laughed and cheered. They were so happy that their powerful dragon friend protected them from the storm. 

Suddenly, Jane noticed a sign near the bottom of the vase. It said "Do Not Touch!" She felt a little scared and confused and decided to put the vase back. As she did, she shrugged her shoulders because she didn't know what to do.

Timmy was sad because he couldn't play with his favorite car anymore. He asked his mom to help him find the screw but she couldn't find it either. Timmy was getting more and more upset. Then, suddenly, he had a weird idea. He decided to use a different screw from another toy car.

"Wow!" said Nina. 

"Mom, mom, mom!" they said. "The penguin is mean! He bit us!"

Jen and Robo laugh and play together. They do not care about Tim or his car. They are happy and content. They are the best friends in the world.
Tom and Lily were playing in the park. They liked to run and jump and slide. They saw a big hill with a hole in it. "Look, a cave!" Lily said. "Let's go inside!"

Suddenly, Billy stopped. He looked at the treehouse and then at his tools. His hard work had not resulted in a treehouse.

But one day, when Spot went to his house, the blanket was gone. He looked everywhere, but he could not find it. Spot was very sad and cold. He missed his warm blanket and could not sleep well. He wished he could find it, but the blanket was lost forever.
Once upon a time, in a big forest, lived a small bunny named Ben. Ben was a very polite bunny. He loved to eat berries and play with his friends.

Her dad smiled and said, “Yes, I would like that too. Maybe tomorrow we can join the green shark again!�
Once upon a time there was a little boy called Peter. Peter was only three years old, and he liked to explore the world. 

On the way to their vacation, they stopped at a restaurant. The little girl saw a big cake and yelled, "I want it!" Her mom said, "Not now, sweetie. We'll get it later."

He had a big white shirt on and would spray the grass and then move on. He made his way around the top of the hill very slowly. The cow watched curiously as he sprayed the grass.

His mom came running and saw the spider. But when she tried to catch it, the spider jumped into the water. Tim screamed and jumped out of the tub. The spider swam away, and Tim was too scared to take a bath again.
Once upon a time, in a big forest, there was a rhinoceros named Rosie. Rosie loved to bounce up and down all day long. She would bounce on the soft grass and make her friends giggle.

Jacky was so happy that she hugged the horse and thanked it. 

Sarah smiled and nodded. "I hope so," she said.

The elephant enjoyed the sunshine and the fresh air for the rest of the day. He was so glad that he had dared to try something new.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Sarah. She was three years old and loved nothing more than playing outside in the sun.

From that day forward, Clumsy was never clumsy anymore. Tom and Jill were happy and enjoyed playing with New Clumsy!
Once upon a time there was a little boy called Peter. One day Peter went for a walk in the countryside. He walked and walked and soon he saw something strange. There were lots of peppers growing on a bush! So Peter decided to pick some and he filled his pockets with as many as he could. 

Maddy and her mother went outside, and there it was! Maddy's special purple statue! She was so happy and hugged it tight.

"Hi there, Joey!" Lily said. "What are you doing?"

Then Tommy came to a big hill. He had to take a break so he got off his bike and admired the view while he rested. Suddenly he noticed something he hadn't seen before. It was a big meadow filled with beautiful wildflowers. Tommy was so delighted that he ran over to the meadow and started to display the flowers. He was fascinated by all the colors. 

Mommy picked up a fluffy rabbit and showed it to her daughter. The little girl squealed with joy. She hugged the rabbit and kissed him.

His mom said, "Yes, I can teach you. First, I will show you the pieces and how they move." She took out the pieces and lead Tim through the game. They played chess together, and Tim started to learn.

The next day, Lily's mommy told her they were going to a party with all of their friends. Lily was so excited! She put on her favorite dress and waited patiently for her mommy to finish getting ready. When they arrived at the party, there were lots of other children there too. They played games and ate yummy snacks.

Suddenly the bird saw something coming closer. It was big and round and rolling down the mountain. It was rolling so fast that it scared the bird even more!

Joe's family were worried and ran away from the beach. They quickly jumped in the car and drove away. Joe was very sad, he wanted to stay at the beach and he couldn't understand why he had to leave.

Her three-year-old daughter heard her and laughed.

The little boy leaned out his window and called out, "Come back!" He waited, but the bird didn't come. 

John nodded and ran up to the automobile. He saw that it was full of flowers. He touched the brightly-colored petals, and as he did, they started to bloom, revealing a big and beautiful bouquet.

Lily replied, "I want to save it for later."

One day, when they went to picnic, the little girl wanted to eat her favorite food; salad. Her mom, however, wanted her to eat something else. The mom and the little girl started to discuss what they were going to eat. 

Roger and Sally were proud of their creation. But then, Roger's daddy came and said, "Not so fast! Next time, add cooperation to your actions. You can do more if you work together!"

At first, all the other fish laughed at Jack and said his dive would be impossible. But, Jack refused to give up. He took a deep breath, held it in and dove down to the deepest depths of the ocean. 

Suddenly, the rope snapped. Tim flew off the swing. He landed on the ground with a thud. He felt pain in his heel. He cried out loud.

John held up the crystal and said “look! I found it!� His mom and dad looked amazed. They asked him where he had found it. John pointed at the garden and said “outside�.

Lily said, "How about Tim?"

Soon the sun started to set and the human knew it was time to go home. He thanked the animals for watching, and he gave them each a hug before he left. He took a deep breath and smiled, knowing he had enjoyed a wonderful day of smooth dancing.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Molly. She was three years old and loved to play.

Together with Dad and Grandma, Max used the wood to complete his special box home. He was so proud and everyone clapped for him.
Once upon a time, there was a lonely bear called Tabby. Tabby had no friends and felt very sad.

Lily was very scared. She did not know why Tom was so angry. She did not know the book was his grandfather's book. She did not know the book was very old and special. She did not mean to rip the pages. She felt very guilty. She started to cry.

Her friend's mom answered the door and said, "Why, hello there. What do you have in your hands?"
The little girl showed her cards and said, "I have cards to show my friend."

The little girl was scared, but she continued to wander until she found an old hut. She knocked on the door and heard someone say "come in". She opened the door, but she was too scared to go in.

Lily and Ben feel bad. They know Mom is right. They look at each other. They say sorry and hug and make up. They are friends again.

<INSTRUCTION> What Anna and Bella do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Anna and Bella laughed, knowing that the table in the garden was a very special place. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Mummy smiled at Little Johnny. "You have done such a good job," she said. Little Johnny beamed.

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan learn? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She learnt that she could prevent getting too hot by playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Jane was so glad she hadn't kept the special vase and she was happy to know that her mom didn't mind. From then on she was more careful when touching things she didn't own and she always shrugged her shoulders when she was feeling unsure.
Once upon a time there was a girl who was going on a picnic. She was feeling very nervous but excited too. She asked her friend to come with her. Her friend said yes and they both got ready.

Jen says, "No, the bike is good. It is fast and fun. You can exercise with it."

The frog told Benny that the other animals had all gone away. Benny was very sad. He said goodbye to the little frog and started to climb out of the well. As he reached the top of the well, he realized that all the other animals had been waiting for him outside.

One day, Timmy's mom said they could go to the grocery store. Timmy was so happy that he jumped up and down. At the store, Timmy helped his mom pick out some fruits and vegetables. He also picked out some cookies for himself.

"Look, a cricket!" Lila said. "It can jump very high."

One day the dolphin found something special. The ocean was warm and the sun was shining. The dolphin smiled and knew he had found a special place. 

When she was done, she showed her design to her mummy. She said, "Mummy, look at my design! I made it with the squash!"

"Can we play some music for you?" Ben asked.

"It means to not be angry or hold a grudge over something someone has done wrong," Mama said. She ran her soft hands through his hair as she explained.

She picked up the phone and called Sam. He said, "Hi, Lily, what's up?"

She also told them that the blocks were theirs to share. She told them that they should not have been selfish and greedy. She told them that they should have played together and helped each other. She told them that they should have been more kind and generous.

"Dear Anna and Ben,

But Jet didn't know that there was a cat hiding near the tree. The cat saw Jet and his friends and wanted to catch them. When Jet saw the cat, he was scared. But he was brave and told his friends to fly away. Jet and his friends flew fast and high, and the cat could not catch them. They were safe and happy again.
Once upon a time, in a small town, there was a brave girl named Lucy. She had a soft, velvet dress that she loved to wear. Lucy was very good at helping her mom and dad.

Suddenly, the wind began to blow. The sailor was so excited! The wind meant that he could spread the big sail and go faster. So he did. He spread the sail out, and soon the boat was sailing fast around the lake.

"Maybe we can use something to unlock it," Ben said.

They think of a way to get the apple. They see a stick on the ground. They pick up the stick. They try to poke the apple with the stick. But the stick is too short. The apple does not fall.

"Mommy, mommy," the little boy said, "look at the gray fish!" His mommy smiled and said, "That's a jellyfish, and she looks like she might be trying to come up to the beach. Let's help her."

“Robots don’t get cold,� he said to himself, confused.

"Yum! Can I try a piece now?" the little boy asked eagerly. 

Her mommy said, "Of course, let's get a net." 

So the boat started cleaning. It worked really hard to push away all the junk from the lake. The boat moved high and low and the lake started to look better and better. After a few days, the lake was clean again! 

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan wanted to do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Joan still wanted to play. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

The daddy gave the little girl a big, big hug and said it was alright. He said he still loved her and that she must never do such a naughty thing again.

On the other side of the lake, Lizzy saw a wise duck. This duck seemed to understand why Lizzy wanted to follow them. He slowly swam towards her and said: "Little girl, these ducks need space, so why don't you watch from a far? Then you can still follow them and have fun watching them from a safe distance."

When they got back home, Ali took her new jacket out of the bag. She put the jacket on and it felt so lovely and warm. Ali was so happy and loved her new jacket. 

Sara and Ben were very frightened. They did not know what to do. They ran back to the shore as fast as they could. They hoped the people would not catch them or hurt them. They found their Mom and Dad and told them what happened. Mom and Dad were very upset and disappointed.

Sarah thanked the spirit and went on her way feeling much happier and wiser.
Once upon a time there was a little girl called Lucy. She was three years old and loved to play with all sorts of things.

When they got to the post office, Lily's mommy gave her some stickers to play with while they waited in line. A lady in front of them turned around and said, "What pretty stickers you have!" Lily smiled and said thank you.

Then his big brother came by and saw the mess. He said he would help and grabbed the enormous mop. He started to mop the floor and it didn't take long before the hallway was clean! Both Jack and his brother were very happy.
Once, there was a girl called Emily. She was three years old and loved to explore. One day, she spotted a cave in the woods and went inside. As she crawled into the small and uncomfortable cave, she found that there were lots of animals inside. 

The mother said to the father, "Let's go inside quick and get the pup warm." But the father said, "It's ok, the pup will be fine in this weather," and he began to walk away.

Tom says, "I want to slide. Sliding is fun. Come with me, Sam." Sam says, "No, I want to swing. Swinging is fun. You come with me, Tom." They do not agree. They choose different things.

When they were done, they stepped back and admired their work. 

Buzz was very happy that he was home and he was also glad to do as the kind lady said. So Buzz took some of his honey and shared it with the other bees. Everyone was happy - especially Buzz!
One day, a curious little girl went out in the garden. She saw something glowing in the middle of the lawn. She walked over to it and felt how warm it was. When she looked closer, she saw it was a tool.

"I'm sorry, sweetie, but it's too cold outside. The weather is mild, but it's not good for a picnic," replied her mom.

"Sorry, Lily, I didn't mean to hurt you," Tom says. He feels bad for pinching Lily. He sees a red mark on her arm. He remembers that Mommy told him not to pinch.

Sam says, "No, I didn't cheat. I had the same gas as you. You just used it all too fast. You were too greedy!"

The doctor smiled. He gave Tommy a sticker. It had a picture of a lion. Tommy liked lions. He put the sticker on his shirt.

After Danny drank the juice, he asked his mom if he could borrow some, too. His mom said yes and she gave him a cup, too. Danny thanked his mom, and she said she was happy to lend him some juice.

The lady was angry and said Tom was greedy and mean. She said she would find another mechanic who would do it for less. She drove away in her noisy car, leaving Tom feeling bitter and sad.

The little girl was sad and didn't know what to do. She went home and cried. The next day, she went back to the pond with her folder, but the ducks were gone. They had flown away because they didn't have any food to eat. The little girl was very sad and wished she had been able to feed them.
Once upon a time, there was a bunny named Benny. Benny loved to eat carrots. One day, he was feeling very hungry and had a strong urge to eat a carrot. So, he hopped around the garden looking for a carrot to eat.

Lily got another sandwich from the fridge and sat back down at the table. She was very happy. While she ate, her mom stayed busy cleaning the kitchen. Lily knew it was important to listen to her mom and remain at the table. She finished her second sandwich and felt very full.

Mary smiled and eagerly knocked on her neighbor's door. When the neighbor answered, Mary said, "I brought you some popcorn!" The neighbor was very surprised. She didn't expect this kind gesture. 

Jill understood what Jack was trying to say. 

A lady who was walking by heard Sam and Rex. She called 911 and waited with them until the ambulance came. The paramedics put Sam on a stretcher and gave him oxygen. They told him he had hurt his lung and needed to go to the hospital. Sam held Rex's paw and said he was sorry.

Suddenly, a boy walked up to Sally and said, "What are you drawing?" Sally said, "I'm drawing a flower. Look!" The boy looked and said, "Wow, that's pretty!" Sally smiled and said, "Thank you. Do you like my yellow pencil?" The boy said, "Yes, it's very bright." 

Once they were in the deep woods they saw a clearing. Lucy imagined it was full of magical herbs that sparkled in the sun. She looked around, and there they were, in all their beauty.

The lawyer and her parents worked hard to make sure that justice was served. In the end, the law was obeyed, and it was because of Grace's obedience. 

Lily's mom hugged her and said, "I'm sorry, honey. I know you loved your doll. But you shouldn't have fought with Sam. He is your friend. He wanted to play with your doll, not hurt it. You need to say sorry to him."

And so Jane went out to sit and play in the sun, feeling jolly and content with her full tummy.
Once upon a time there was an ostrich named Sam. He was fit and active and he loved to run. He ran every day around the farm, and the other animals would cheer him on.

John smiled and had lots of fun playing with the toys. He forgot all about the sour door. 

At last, the bird finished its song and the flower thanked it for the music. The bird chirped in return and flew away. 
The flower sighed contentedly and thanked the sky for such a jolly sound. Then the flower lay back and enjoyed the peace of the warm summer air.
Once there was a brave little girl. She wanted to explore the world around her. One day, she decided to go on an adventure with her friends. 

Then, she decided to make a hideout in the stack. She carefully moved the hay to create little nooks and crannies, and a cozy hiding place. She was so excited when she was done and couldn't wait to go hide inside her hay stack.

"Hello little rabbit," she said.

They had made their big dream come true.
Once upon a time there was a yacht. It floated in the deep blue sea. The yacht was big and white and shiny. The people who lived in the yacht were happy.

Tim and Mia looked at each other and smiled. They were excited to hear the pilot. They wondered what he looked like and how he could fly the plane. They wanted to meet him and say thank you.

So the family all went inside and the little girl put the lily on the windowsill. 

One day, Lucy found a cherry tree in her garden. She saw the cherry tree had lots of sweet, red fruits. She didn't know what it was, so she asked her mother.

"Hello, kids," he says. "Is this your kite? I saw it flying in the sky. It is a nice kite. But it has a hole in it. And a leaf on it. Did you do that?"

The brave penny smiled, feeling proud of herself. She knew she had been brave, and had accomplished something great. She sped back home, knowing that she had had a wonderful adventure.
Once upon a time, there was a wrap. It was orange and it was special.

<INSTRUCTION> What were the two sisters doing? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> The two sisters were having so much fun until they heard a loud noise. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Uncle packed his equipment, and started on his journey. The path was long and sometimes he had to struggle. He had to use all his strength to get over the hills, and to push through the mountains.

"Wow, look at this!" Anna said, holding the crystal in her hand. "It's so pretty!"

Spot was so happy! He knew his owner's touch was dependable. Spot had found a wonderful color that also gave him a loving touch. He knew that color would remind him of his owner's love every time he saw it.
Once upon a time, there was a small girl called Lily. She was always in such a rush and was always running around. One day, Lily's mom and dad told her about a holiday. It was a big, special adventure and she was so excited.

Daddy said “That’s a great idea! But you need to be careful because the axe is very sharp.� 

As she walked, she heard a distant bell ringing. It sounded beautiful. She looked everywhere and saw nothing. But then she looked up, and she saw a tower in the distance.

A big dog came running towards them. It barked and showed its teeth. It wanted the stick too. Tom and Lily were frightened. They let go of the stick and ran away. The dog took the stick and ran away too.

While they waited for the new batteries, Timmy decided to clean up his room. He made sure everything was tidy and put away in its proper place. When his mom came back with the new batteries, Timmy was excited to put them in his toy car and watch it zoom around his now tidy room.
Once upon a time, there was a little bear named Teddy. Teddy had a cozy chamber where he liked to sleep. Every night, he would snuggle up in his bed and close his eyes. Teddy loved to sleep because it made him feel rested and happy.

The parent agreed and said that they were glad the child was there to help. They knew the job wouldn’t be so easy without the child’s help. 

One day, they are playing in the backyard with their theater. They are telling a story about a princess and a dragon. Anna is the princess and Ben is the dragon. They make funny voices and noises.

One day, Jack and Mikey decided to learn something new. They had heard about a test which would be a lot of fun.

Mama said "You can do whatever you want, it's your treasure and it can be very useful!"

Papa warned Maple to be careful, for the lake was dangerous. Maple said, "Okay Papa, I will be careful."

Lily and Tom played and had fun all day. They learned that it is good to share and help others. When they went home, they told their moms and dads about their new friend. Lily and Tom were happy because they learned that sharing and helping others makes everyone happy.
Once upon a time, there was a little flower named Bloom. Bloom lived in a big garden with many other flowers. Bloom had a goal to be the most beautiful flower in the garden.

"Mum, what was that?" asked the little girl.

But when they got home, the boy put the cage on a shelf and forgot about Tweetie. Tweetie was stuck in the cage once again. He wished he could reverse time and never go inside the cage. But it was too late. Tweetie was trapped forever.
Once upon a time, there was a boy named Timmy. Timmy was walking through the forest when he stumbled on a rock. He fell down and hurt his knee. 

"Mummy, can I change the bookshelf?" Emily asked.

Just then, a voice called out from behind her. It was an old woman. 
 
"Do you like it?" she said.

She let go of her mom's hand and took her dad's hand. She walked with them to the swing. She felt a little brave.

The little girl's mother wanted to provide the best holiday possible for her daughter to help her become less shy. So, she took the little girl to a new place and met a lot of new people.

Just as they had finished singing, a strong wind blew and the mask that John was wearing flew away.

They see a big tree on the hill. The tree has red and green things on it. Tom and Mia are hungry. They pick some of the things from the tree. They are apples. They are yummy.

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan learn? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She learnt that she could prevent getting too hot by playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Suddenly, Jane noticed a rough-looking man walking towards her. She started to feel scared and hid behind the bush.

Fin felt sad but wanted to help the crab feel better. He swam away and thought of a plan. He remembered that the sun could make things warm. So, Fin swam to the top of the water and called to the sun, "Please, sun, help my new friend feel fine and not freeze!"

They put the telescope in a safe place and go back to play. When the sun goes down, they ask their mom if they can use the telescope.

"Mom, he took my car!" Anna says.

Lily and Max played together, swinging on the swings and sliding down the slide. They were very happy and had a lot of fun. Suddenly, Lily saw a butterfly and ran after it. Max followed her and they chased the butterfly together.

<INSTRUCTION> What idea did Joan have? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She had an idea about going out to the park again, and playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

"Little bird, why can't you fly?" he asked. The bird said, "I hurt my wing. Can you rock me to make me feel better?" The tall man was happy to help. He picked up the bird and started to rock it gently.

One day, Timmy took his stick weapon and went to the park to play. He saw another boy playing with his toy truck. Timmy wanted the truck, so he hit the boy with his stick. The boy got hurt and Timmy felt bad. He knew he did something wrong.

Lily is angry. She does not like Ben's answer. She wants Ben to help her. She wants Ben to be nice.

Grace didn't understand completely what was happening, but she knew something was about to change. Her parents were doing everything they could to make sure the law was followed. 

He said, "Ah! Now I can eat something tasty!"
Once upon a time there was a pink owl, who lived in the forest. One day, the owl was flapping its wings around when it saw a butterfly. It stopped to look at it and suddenly a thundering noise started in the sky. The pink owl looked up and saw a huge dark cloud! 

Benny took big steps towards the trophy, but he saw a little squirrel standing in front of it. The squirrel looked scared, and Benny wondered why. Benny tried to take a step closer, but the squirrel shook his head and said, "No, no! You can't take the trophy! It belongs to the winner of the race!"

<INSTRUCTION> What were the two sisters doing? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> The two sisters were having so much fun until they heard a loud noise. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Lily and Ben were surprised and happy. They laughed and clapped their hands. The parrot repeated what they said. They played with the parrot for a while. They asked it questions and taught it new words. The parrot was friendly and smart. It recognized their voices and learned their names.

But when it is time to go home, they have to organize their equipment. They have to put everything in the right place. They have to make it tidy. They do not like this part. They want to keep playing.

The guard rocked back and forth in his chair and laughed. "I'm sure you will find something perfect!"

After a few wiggles and jiggles, the ball was free from the tree and Jacky was able to reach up and grab it! They both cheered and hugged each other, thrilled that their plan had worked.
Once upon a time, there was a bear. He was so sleepy he could barely keep his eyes open. He decided to go for a nap in his cozy den. He curled up and fell sound asleep.

When it was lunch time, the mom put the hot food on the blanket and everyone sat to eat. The food was delicious and the family ate until their bellies were full.

"Mom, mom, wake up! There is a big star outside! Can we go see it?" she asked.

After they finished setting the table, they sat down to eat. The little girl said, "This home is so big and pretty. Do you like living here?"

During the party, Lily's friend accidentally spilled juice on her dress. Lily was upset and said, "Oh no, my dress is ruined!" Her mom came to comfort her and said, "Don't worry, we can wash it and it will be good as new." Lily felt better and learned that even if something gets spoiled, it can be fixed.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Timmy. Timmy was nervous because he had to go to the dentist. His mommy tried to wrap him in a big hug to make him feel better, but Timmy was still nervous.

Tom and Anna hug Mom and Dad back. They love them too. They eat their lunch with their forks and spoons. They are a happy family.
Lily and Ben were best friends. They liked to play with their toys in the garden. One day, Lily brought a new doll. It had long hair and a pretty dress. Ben wanted to play with it.

Lily has a white coat and a stethoscope. Ben has a bandage and a hat. They find a teddy bear and put it on the couch. "This is our patient," Lily says. "He is sick. We have to make him better."

"His name is Rex. He's very friendly. Do you like dogs?" the man asked.

Inside the box, Sally found something that looked harmless. She reached inside and grabbed it. It turned out to be a shiny tool that she could use to work.

The girl said, "Hi there! What are you looking for?" 
The man replied, "Oh, nothing. Just spreading the rocks around." 

Jim stood in his bedroom and looked sadly at the window. He had wanted to explore the world, but his cheap sail had broken. Jim had a bad ending.
Once upon a time, there was a family that loved to go to the park. One day the family piled into the car and drove to the park. 

One day, they saw a big dog near their tree. The dog was barking and growling. Sam and Lily were scared. They did not know if the dog was friendly or mean. They wanted to go to their fort, but the dog was in the way.

The next day, Sam remembered something exciting! She had found a special pencil with magical powers. She went back to her toy game and used the pencil. The pencil made the score come back! Everyone was happy, and Sam was so proud of her magical pencil. 

The infant watched until the sun began to set. When it was too dark to see he tucked himself back into his crib and closed his eyes. He felt tired and content after his exploration. The night was peaceful and he soon fell asleep, happy to rest after a full day of adventure.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Jack. He had a tiny hut in the woods near his house, and he liked to go there all the time to play. One day, Jack was in his hut when he heard a loud noise. He looked outside and saw a huge fire! The flames were getting closer and Jack was scared.

One day, they saw a man sitting on a bench with a pipe in his mouth. The pipe smelled good, like cookies and candy. Sam wanted to try it, but his dad said no.

Tim and Fluffy decided to take the heavy trophy home. They showed it to Tim's mom, and she was very proud of them. She said, "Well done, Tim and Fluffy! You both deserve this trophy for being such good friends."

In the morning Baby woke up and took her sweater off. She was so excited to play because the sun was out and shining. She ran outside and laughed, feeling so happy and strong with her sweater on. 

The little boy said that he lost his toy and he couldn't find it. Lily felt sad for him and decided to help him. She asked her friends to help her search for the toy. After a while, they found the toy and gave it to the little boy. He stopped crying and was very happy.

After a while, the butterfly said, "Do you like shrimp? I love it! It's so good and tasty." The shrimp was very happy when he heard the butterfly say that. He said to the butterfly, "Yes, I love shrimp too. It's the best thing to eat in the pond." The butterfly laughed and nodded.

"Can we go on the slide, please?" Tim asks their mom.

Timmy got out his paint and started to paint a picture of a big, round wheel. He used the color yellow for the wheel and blue for the background. When he was done, he showed his mom. "Wow, Timmy! That's a great painting!" said his mom. 

Tom runs to her. He helps her stand up. He sees her lip. It is blue and swollen.

The mother was pleased and thanked him for not scratching his nose while the children were playing. She realized what a kind gesture this was from the elderly man, and she thanked him again before he left.

George was excited and said, "Yes, I do!"

"Yum, yum, Grandma. I like celery," she said.

Tom went to his friend, a little girl named Sue. Sue was very smart. She helped Tom fix the television. They turned it back on and watched their favorite show together. Tom was happy again, and they both ate yummy food in front of the television.
Once upon a time, there was a gentle bunny named Lucy. Lucy loved to skip and play with her friends in the sunny meadow. One day, Lucy and her friends decided to watch a movie together.

"But remember to behave and not draw on walls or other people's things," the old man said. 

He cooked some vegetables in the pan, and some meat in the oven. Meanwhile, the back fence of the house was looking a bit old.

Jill and Tom want to swing too. They wait for their turn, but the big kids do not give them a chance. They swing for a long time, and make fun of Jill and Tom.

Finally, the cake was done. Mom took it out of the oven. Tom and his mom ate the cake. It was very good. Tom was happy he helped mix the cake with the mixer.
Once upon a time, there was a polite boy named Tim. Tim loved to play with his baseball. One day, he went to the park to play with his friends.

Lucy was so happy and hugged the glove tightly. When she got home, she put it on her hand and started walking around. Suddenly she heard a sound.

She climbed higher and higher. She reached the top. She smiled. She felt proud. She waved to the birds. She did not see the sign. The sign said "Danger. High Voltage. Do Not Touch." She did not know what it meant. She touched the wire. The wire was hot. The wire was angry. The wire hurt her. She screamed. She fell. She did not climb anymore.
Anna loves to blow bubbles. She has a big bottle of bubble soap and a wand with a hole. She dips the wand in the soap and blows gently. Out come many bubbles, big and small, round and shiny. They float in the air and catch the light.

"What does this do?" Dina asked.

Jenny hugged the sweet birds and thanked them before setting off on her adventure again. She wrapped her warm sweater around her, and the shining blanket around her shoulders. From then on, she never felt ashamed of her sweater and every adventure she went on was filled with magic and warmth.
Once upon a time there was a hero. His name was Mike. Mike was very strong, brave and helpful. He was a hero who everyone admired and loved.

He took his new pants out to show his mom, but when she saw them, she looked at them with a frown. She told him to take them off and to never wear pants outdoors again!

Sarah nodded in agreement, so her mom put the cap on her head.

Jack: "Let's join our bags to have lots of fun!" 
Jill: "Yes! That's a great idea!"

Spot nuzzled Tom. He forgave Tom. He let Tom ride him again. Tom and Spot went back to the farm. They helped with the cows and the sheep and the pigs. They were happy.
Sara and Ben wanted to paint a rainbow. They had red, orange, yellow, green, blue and purple paints. They took a big paper and a brush each. They started to paint from one side of the paper.

Nancy was watching from her bedroom window. She saw the funny sight of people running away from the rain. It made her giggle.

"Hi," Lila said. "I like your car. It is very modern."

Lily replied, "I found it in the grass over there. Do you think it's special?"

Zara was so happy and relieved. She had saved her kite! She hugged it tight and proudly flew it higher and higher into the clouds.
Once there was a boy who was three and loved to roll in the grass. One day while he was rolling, something shiny caught his eye. He stopped and said "What's that?"

Tom and Lily looked at Mommy. They were scared and sad. They did not know they did something wrong. They did not know the pears were not theirs. They did not know what to say.

They ran to the fence. The balloon was very high. They could not reach it.

The little girl was thrilled! She smiled and laughed as she played on both sides of the fence. From then on, she was known as the girl who never stopped trying.
Once upon a time, there lived a little girl named Lucy. Every day when the sun was out, she would go for a walk in the woods. As she skipped along the path, she started to feel a trembling sensation in her tummy. Lucy stopped in a clearing and thought, there was something so peaceful here.

The naughty little monkey felt scared. He quickly apologised to the lion and promised he would never be naughty again.

The little girl began to cry and she tried to ask for help, but no one came. Finally, she had to carry the cross everywhere she went. No matter where she went, the white cross was always with her.

Tommy was excited to help his dad and started to search through the shed for tools. Working together, they managed to repair the steam engine. When it was done, the shed was filled with a soft and comforting sound from the engine.

<INSTRUCTION> What were the two sisters doing? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> The two sisters were having so much fun until they heard a loud noise. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

The ball was hard and bitter and she knew at once it must have been cold and wet in the night. She kept kicking and soon enough the ball was flying between the posts and into the net. Jenna grinned, the feeling was amazing! She continued for a few more minutes before she got tired. She was still smiling when she said goodbye to the structure and walked back towards her dad.
Once upon a time, there was a boy called Jack. He was always very creative and loved trying to find new ways of doing things. 

Frank was excited and jumped into the swamp. He explored the swamp for a long time and paid close attention to all the details. He enjoyed himself very much in the swamp.

Jen nodded and went inside. But all the fun outside had made her hungry. She asked her mum if they could go to the rocket shop and buy some yummy treats.

The fisherman was very nice. He said he would help rescue the kitty. He quickly made a bossy plan to get it down. With the fisherman's help, the kitty was soon free from the tree.

"Hi, Rex. Do you want some jam too?" Ben asked.

The 3 year old girl smiled and went back to the factory to play with the machines again. She knew that she didn't have to be perfect,
Once there was a bunny who lived in the forest. She had many wild friends, including a big bear and happy birds. One day, the bunny found a strange magnet. She wanted to play with it, but it kept folding up. 

The animal was growling and pacing around the net. Sally tried to get away but she was too scared. She tried to scream but nothing came out. The animal suddenly stopped and grabbed the net with its teeth. It shook it one more time, and something flew out of the net into the air! 

The little boy was so excited, he jumped and said, "Yes please!" 

So, Lily and her mom climbed the tall tree together. When they reached the top, Lily said, "I can see everything from up here!" Her mom smiled and said, "I'm glad you're not scared anymore." They both enjoyed the view from the top of the tall tree in their yard.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to play with her toys and run around in the house. One day, Lily's mom gave her a glass cup of juice to drink. Lily was very happy and drank the juice quickly.

He sees a small ball of fur. It is a puppy. The puppy is scared and shakes. Tom feels sorry for the puppy. He says, "Hello, little fur. I am Tom. Do not be afraid. I am your friend." The puppy looks at Tom and wags his tail. He says, "Hello, Tom. I am Max. I am glad you are my friend. I was lonely in the box."

"Wow, you are a traveler? Where did you come from?" Sam says.

Sally didn't mean to break Timmy's toy, but Timmy didn't want to listen. He felt angry and sad. Sally tried to apologize, but Timmy didn't want to forgive her. 

Suddenly, the door opened revealing a filthy freezer.
It was filled with old food and had a nasty smell.

Sarah loved the taste of spaghetti. She wanted to eat it, so she grabbed a fork and started eating. It was so delicious that she ate it all. She was full and happy.

Finally, Joey relented and put on his dress. His mom smiled and gave him a hug.

"Yes, please!" Tom says. He puts his hat on the table and his car on the floor. "What do you want to play?"

One day, Leo met a little bird who was sad. The bird's nest was very high up in a tree, and she could not fly. Leo asked, "Why are you sad?" The bird said, "I can't get to my nest." Leo wanted to help the bird.

The flower looked out of the fridge, and saw the sunlight in the sky. It smiled and was so happy that it had found a place to be, despite the cold temperature.

The girl was so amazed and thanked the bear for protecting her. She included the bear in everything she did, but this time the bear included her too.
Once there was a polite boy named Tim. One day he went out to the field with his parents. 
Tim looked far out and spotted a beautiful view. He was so happy! He wanted to get closer to the view so he ran towards it. 
His parents were surprised and called Tim, asking him not to be so reckless. 
Tim ignored his parents and ran faster. 
But when he was almost there, something sharp slashed his legs! He tried to get up, but he was hurting so much. 
He cried out loud, and his parents quickly came to his aid and held him in their arms.

Lily was so sad that she couldn't eat chocolate anymore. She missed her favorite dessert and wished she could go back to the day when her parents surprised her with the cake. From that day on, Lily learned that even good surprises can have bad endings.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. One day, she went to a fancy event with her mom. She wore a pretty dress and felt very happy.

The little boy arrived at the oasis and he was in awe. He ran to the edge of the water and started to touch it. As soon as he did, the river started to swell and the current quickly became stronger. Thomas quickly pulled his hand away.

The little girl looked at her staff and said, “I will do anything you need, Mama!�

After a while, they all got tired, so they stopped and talked. The person thanked everyone for joining the adventure. They all said that it was super fun.

Tim saw a tall tree and decided to stand on its branch to get closer to the moon. He asked his friend, Cat, "Can you help me climb the tree?" Cat said, "Yes, Tim. I will help you." With Cat's help, Tim stood on the branch and reached up to the moon.

"How do we play with it?" Ben asks, holding the string.

As the tide began to change, the children paddled the raft and went farther and farther away from shore. Max and Lily were so happy, they laughed and played.

His boss said, "You will have to travel around the world providing artwork and drawing pictures with ink."

Even though the fire was small, Joey and his mom worked hard to put it out. They emptied the bag on the fire and it went out quickly. 

"OK!" Mia says. "But be careful. The hill is steep and rocky."

Timmy's mom was relieved and said, "Thank you for helping me find my passport. We can go on our trip now!" Timmy smiled and said, "I'm happy we saved the trip. Let's go to Hawaii!"
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Timmy. Timmy loved to play with his toy cars and trucks all day long. One day, Timmy's mommy took him to the park to play with his toys. Timmy was so happy and excited to play with his toys at the park. 

One day, the large plane saw a little girl sitting on the ground. The little girl was weeping. She was very sad. The large plane wanted to help the little girl. So, it flew down to the ground and stopped near her.

"Mom, can you help us?" Anna calls.

"Me too," Ben said. He saw a water fountain near the bench. He got up and went to the fountain. He drank some water and filled his ball with water.

Lily smiled and said, "Thank you, Timmy. You're a good friend."
Once upon a time, there was a big, heavy sack. It was so heavy that nobody could lift it up. One day, a little girl named Lily found the sack. She tried to lift it up, but it was too heavy for her too. 

Janet waved goodbye and walked away, but she couldn't wipe the smile off her face. From that day onward, she couldn't wait to come back to the harbor and say hello to Joe.
Bubba the bear was so excited to wake up in the morning. He couldn't wait to explore the forest. He was very hairy and loved the feel of the sun's warmth on his fur.

Timmy's mom was so proud of him for being so kind to the young bird. They finished measuring the flour and made the cake together. Timmy felt very happy and proud of himself for helping the bird and measuring the flour just right. The end.
Once upon a time, there was a boy named Timmy. Timmy loved summer because he could play outside all day. One day, Timmy's mom said they were going to travel to the beach. Timmy was very enthusiastic and couldn't wait to see the ocean.

The older sister said, “Let’s make something in the ground.�

And the squirrel stayed and roamed the garden without fear.
Once there were two friends. One was called Kate and the other was called Jack. They were playing by painting.
Kate had a special paintbrush and the brightest paint. Jack had a safe to put his paints in.

Lily was very happy and she said, "Mommy, can we play with my new car tonight?"

"Yes, Anna. I want to play with you. You are a good friend too. What do you want to play?" Ben says.

The people were relieved and excited to get to work. Everyone gathered in the courtyard of the castle, and the King said, "Now that we are united, we can restore our kingdom and make it even better than before!"

The police began looking in the house and it quickly became messy. They were looking inside drawers and cupboards. Jimmy was so confused and asked the police why they were there.

Her mom said, "Of course, let's go print it out." 

The brave girl smiled softly and said, "I am glad I was able to restore it". And she kept it safe in her pocket.
Once there was a frog. It wanted to find a way home. So it started to crawl. It was slow and it took a long time.

Finally, the day of the big battle arrived. The knight was ready and fought bravely. Thanks to his preparation, he won the battle and became a hero. From that day on, the knight always prepared for battles and never lost again. The moral of the story is that if you prepare well, you can achieve anything you want.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to play outside with her friends. One day, they decided to build a tent out of blankets and chairs. They had so much fun playing inside the tent, pretending they were camping in the forest.

The policeman smiled and said, “Well, I'm glad you did the right thing. You can carry on with your journey, then.�

The other birds were amazed. The little bird was so proud of himself, and the other birds were envious. From that day on, the little bird always sang and whistled. His dream had come true!
Once upon a time, there was a crazy mailman called Jack. He had a very special job - he delivered mail to people all around the world! He loved his job because every day was different.

Then he heard a voice from behind him. "Maybe I can help you." It was his dad.

They hugged one more time before they went home. Chloe knew that she would enjoy the purple ladder again soon.
Once upon a time there was a little girl named Claire. Claire was always very excited to play with her friends, but today she was feeling a bit nervous.

Lila and Ben are sad. They are sorry. They wish they did not fight. They wish they did not find the ball. They wish Mama was here. But she is not. She is gone.
Lily and Ben were twins who liked to play together. One day, they wanted to cook something for their mom, who was at work. They found a large bowl, some eggs, some flour, and some milk in the kitchen. They mixed everything together and poured it into a pan. Then they put the pan in the oven and turned it on.

Finally, the bird found the fish in the pond. The fish was happy to see the yellow bird and the scale. They played together all day long. The bird and the fish were the best of friends.
One day, Tom and Sam went to the park. They saw a popular toy train with a long line of kids waiting for their turn. Tom said, "We need to wait in line to ride the train."

Jack and Mama took the pot of water and carefully poured it into the drain. Jack watched as it disappeared. 
Mama said, "See Jack, we did it! We measured the water in the drain!"
Once upon a time, there was a machine. Every day, it would ring. But the machine was a very unusual machine; it was creative.

"It works! It works! Thank you, mom! You are the best!" Tommy says.

Will was scared and he wanted to run away – but George, the brave one, said “Don't worry, I’ll take care of it.� He picked up a stick and he kicked it hard at the bad dog. The dog ran away very fast and it never came back again. 

<INSTRUCTION> What were the two sisters doing? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> The two sisters were having so much fun until they heard a loud noise. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

The nest replied, "Yes, of course! You can be my family!"

The dog looked up and smiled. "Hello," said the dog. "My name is Max. What's your name?"

He hopped up on it and grabbed the handle. He yanked it hard and the motor started to spin. Faster and faster it went until it began to yield and the motor started to slow down. As the motor grew slower and slower, the boy felt a warmth inside his heart. He was so happy that the motor had yielded.

Lilly was so excited and couldn't believe her luck. She thanked the bird and enjoyed the perfect snack. Now she knows where to go when she is bored again.
Once there was a naughty boy who never listened to his mother. One day his mother took him to the market. He saw some lollies and asked his mother if they could buy them. His mother said no, it was too expensive. He got angry and tried to take them anyway. His mother caught him and wiped his cheek with her hand. 

But then something amazing happened - the lady heard a chirping noise and, turning around, she saw a group of happy birds. The birds had found all the scattered coins and were gathering them back together in a pile. 

The little girl was very playful and liked to take her toy Everywhere. She was always happy to release her plastic toy into the air and watch it fly.

"No, don't touch it!" Lily said. "It will hurt you. It has sharp spikes."

Then he got an idea. He asked Emma to look through the microscope at the ugly bug. She put the big round piece up to her eye and looked through the microscope. What she saw amazed her! The bug was no longer ugly, it had tiny colourful wings that sparkled in the sunlight. She felt so lucky to be able to see such a beautiful thing that was so small.

She looked around and found even more herbs in the garden. They all smelled differently and each one was unique. The girl was so excited and enjoyed learning about them. She even asked her parents if she could start her own herb garden.

Tommy smiled and nodded. He couldn't wait to find out
Once upon a time there was a little girl and her name was Jana. She was three years old, and she lived with her mom and dad. One day Jana wanted to watch her favourite show on the TV. She asked her mom if she could watch it, but her mom told her she had to wait.

After getting punched many times, Jack and Tom ran away. They never returned to the blue door again.

"I won't, I promise," the man said.

"Hey Johnny, do you want to play catch?" asked Timmy.

Tom was so grateful and borrowed Lily's toy bus. He drove it carefully and the children still had fun riding with him. 

When Sara came back, she saw something terrible. The bear had bitten Lily's toe. Lily's toe was gone. Lily's dress was torn. Lily's smile was gone. Sara screamed and ran to Lily. She hugged her and cried.

Suddenly, she saw a piece of bread on the ground. She picked it up and threw it in the air. The bird came down to grab the bread. But then, a big cat appeared and grabbed the bird. 

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan wanted to do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Joan still wanted to play. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Betty couldn't help but feel jealous. "Let me stay and play with you," she begged. But Alice just kept playing with the ice.

When Spot ran to get the ball, he saw a wild cat. Spot wanted to play with the cat, but the cat didn't want to play. The cat was scared, and it bit Spot. Spot cried, and Tom ran to help him. They went home, but Spot was hurt and sad. The end.
One day, a little boy named Tim found some clay. It was soft and brown. He wanted to make something with it. He thought hard about what to make. Tim was confused.

Emily felt very happy and hugged her dad. She said, "Thanks daddy!" And they both smiled, happy to be together.
Timothy was walking down the street with his mom when he saw something strange. It was a big, furry creature with a long tail and big eyes. He stopped and stared.

One day, Lily and her mommy went to the park again. Lily saw a yummy ice cream truck near the sign. She asked her mommy for ice cream. While her mommy was buying ice cream, Lily went to the sign with the red button.

So they went to the shop and bought some spicy food for the goose. When they came back to the park the goose was still there. Lily's mother recommended that they put the food on the ground so that the goose could eat it. 

“That was incredible!� he said.

Then, a kind lady saw Jack and asked him what was wrong. Jack told her he lost his wallet and couldn't buy any candy. The lady was very smart and knew how to help. She gave Jack some money so he could buy his candy. Jack was so happy and thanked the lady. 

The rabbit hopped over to a nearby tree and it grabbed a thin gray wipe from the tree trunk. It looked at the wipe and then hopped back to the mud. With a few swipes the rabbit was clean and the mud was gone. 

The doctor asked Jen if she was ready. She nodded and closed her eyes, even though she was scared. But the doctor lied and he did not make Jen better. Instead, he hurt her even more on her leg. 

Jack was delighted and surprised that the old man had foreshadowed the discovery of the golden crown. He wore it proudly, feeling like a true king, and presented the original object to his family.
Once upon a time a mom, a dad and their three-year-old daughter were out for a drive. The outside was sunny and warm. Little did the daughter know that soon the day would be spoiled. 

When they got home, Daddy asked Jane what she wanted to do with the green powder. 

While they were getting gas, Timmy's dad warned him not to touch anything. Timmy listened carefully and promised not to touch anything. But as they were leaving, Timmy saw a toy truck on the shelf and he really wanted it. He asked his dad if he could have it, but his dad said no. Timmy was sad, but he knew he had to listen to his dad.

They play with Spot and the man. They run and throw a ball. They make a new friend. They are very glad.
Sara and Ben were playing in the living room. They liked to pretend they were grown-ups. Sara found an empty ashtray on the table. She thought it was a hat. She put it on her head and said, "Look at me, Ben! I'm a princess!"

Tom cried and cried. He had lost the yarn and his friend. He wished he had been humble and shared the yarn with Lila. He learned a hard lesson.
On Tuesday, Lily and Sam went to the park with Mom. They saw a big slide, a swing, and a merry-go-round. Lily wanted to ride the merry-go-round. She liked the horses and the music. Sam wanted to ride the swing. He liked to go high and fast.

"Can you play it?" the boy asked.

They had so much fun driving around the driveway. After they were finished, they said goodbye and then Ben went on his way. He was so envious of Jack's car, he really wished it was his. But they remained good friends, and every now and then they would visit each other in the garage.
Jimbo was wandering through the woods. He saw something bright. It was a ball of yarn. Jimbo reached his hands out and touched it. He liked the way it felt. It was soft and fluffy. He picked it up and held it close to his chest.

The horse did not like Tom. He did not like the saddle and the bridle. He did not like to be told what to do. He started to run and jump and kick. He tried to throw Tom off.

Tim and Anna are sad and angry. Their house is gone. They feel frustrated.

One day, a squirrel and some other animals came to see him. The orange potato was so happy to have company. He showed them some of his sneezes. He was so good at it that the squirrel began to try it too.

They asked their mom for some red paper, scissors and glue. Mom gave them what they needed and said, "Be careful with the scissors and don't make a mess. I will check on you later."

He saw a beautiful meadow where a little girl was playing with her dolls. He was very curious, so he flew down and landed by her side.

Brad was scared and he started to cry. He said that he was sorry and that he was grateful for the wheat.

Jill thought for a moment and then said, "You can touch the flowers, the slide and the swings. They are all useful and good for you!"

After a few minutes, the bedroom was all ready. Daddy and mummy said it looked just perfect! They were very happy with their new house.
Once upon a time there was a brave little girl named Emma. Emma had a big goal. She wanted to break a record. She was determined to make her goal come true.

Together, they enjoyed the beautiful art the ant had printed.
Jack was happy to be at the beach. He had been looking forward to it all day. He saw lots of people jumping in the water and surfing on their boards. Everyone was having a lot of fun. 

Just then, a small but honest bird flew down from the sky. It looked at Joe with its beady eyes and said: "What's wrong, Joe? Need help?" Joe nodded, so the bird said: "I can help you with my wings! I will wipe the mud away, so you can cross the puddle safely."

"Yes, of course," she said, "but be careful and don't go too fast."

Lucy was amazed. She admired the bee flying so quickly. The bee was the busiest she ever saw.

"We were trying to swim in the pool, mom," Tim says. "But the pool is broken. There is a big hole in the side and the water is gone."

"What's wrong Jane?" asked Mummy.

Then, something bad happened. The dog saw a squirrel. The dog wanted to catch the squirrel. The dog ran after the squirrel. The dog forgot about Lily. The dog pulled Lily with its collar. Lily fell down. She hurt her knee. She cried.

"No," her mom said. "It's too dangerous. You might get lost."

One day the boy decided he needed to do something. So he took out his spoon and started digging and digging in the ground. 

Then, she heard someone shouting. It was Grammy!

She grabbed Ben's doll and threw it on the ground. She did not want to play with a doll with a stitch.

Sara and Tom learned a lesson that day. They learned that modest things can be beautiful, and that being nice is better than being loud. They said sorry and thank you to each other, and hugged. They decided to play together again, but with more care and respect.
Tom and Lily were playing in the yard when they saw dark clouds in the sky. They heard a loud noise like a big drum. It was thunder.

"Bye, nurse. You are good," Tommy said.

"Let me see!" Lily said. She reached for the glass ball, but Ben held it tight.

"Lily, where are you?" he asked. "I can't find you."

<INSTRUCTION> What di Joan's mother say to her? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Her mother said, Joan, you must take a nap and prevent getting too hot. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

The small pepper was surprised. It started thinking about the words the tree had said. It thought about how amazing it was to be alive and when it looked around, it realised that the garden was full of other small peppers.

"Can I sing too?" she asked, hopeful.

Tom and Mia felt bad. They knew they did something wrong. They struggled to say sorry. They did not like to see their mom angry and sad. They helped her pick up the pastries and put them in the trash. They also wiped the floor and the table.

The little girl spent the rest of the day playing in the park, and when the sun started to set, she knew she had found her favorite place.
Once there was a little girl, called Sally. She was playing with her toys when she noticed something shining in the garden. She walked closer and saw it was a big, long mine. She was very excited and called her mum.

One day, the square said, "Let's prepare for a race!" All his friends agreed. They got ready for the race. They were excited.

Just then, a zip flew past! Jane followed it with her eyes and watched it fly to a tall tree in the corner of the park. She wanted to find out where the zip had gone. Jane carefully hopped down from the branch and followed the zip.

That was the best day ever!
Once there was a boy named Jake. He was three years old and loved to explore.

Tim and Jen say, "Yes, we are ready. Thank you, Bob. You are a nice driver. And you are not ugly. You are different. And we like different." They smile at Bob. They hold their cars and trucks. They are happy.

Annie smiled. "I'm looking for something special," she said.

"Hello, everyone, this is Sara, the birthday girl," her mom said. She lifted Sara up and gave her a hug. "She's a little shy, but she's very sweet and smart. She helped me make a rainbow cake. Do you want to see it?"

They spat out the prunes and threw them on the floor. They were angry and sad. They wanted something good to eat.

So she went outside to find the perfect thing to use. She found a big yellow pine tree. She loved it!

Madeline soon emerged from the cupboard and saw that Riley had the key. She asked him where he got it from, and Riley replied that he had found it while looking for her. Madeline smiled - it seemed very important. They soon forgot about their quarrel, and started a new adventure together to find out what the important key unlocked.
Joey was playing in his backyard. He had a bucket to keep his toys in and he was having a lot of fun. Suddenly, his brother came out and got very mad. He wanted to play with the bucket but Joey said no. They argued and then his brother pushed him. This made Joey very sad.

The playful clown was very happy now that he had his chain, so he hopped back on his bike and rode away. He waved goodbye to the pond and he was never seen again.
Once there was a farmer who had a very flexible nap. He could nap anywhere, anytime of day. One day, the farmer went to his field to nap. He was feeling so tired that he completely forgot about his work. He napped for so long that his crops didn't get harvested in time and so he lost all of his money. The farmer was so sad and he never wanted to nap so late again.
One day, a little boy was playing at the park with his friends. He was very excited to play on the swings and slide. But then he heard loud noises that made him scared. 

One day, the animals noticed they were not able to find the giraffe. They looked everywhere but she seemed to have disappeared.

Suddenly, an angry gust of wind blew and the kite was whisked away and up into the sky. 

"What's that?" asked Jane.

But then Anna had an idea! She ran to the kitchen and grabbed a can of polish. Then she ran to her grandpa's room. She started to polish his big chair, so it was super shiny.

From then on, the man kept using the same reliable number of drops of jam in his food and he was always happy. He liked that numbers could make things so special.
Once upon a time, there was a fish called Jax who loved to swim. Every day, he would go to the nearby stream for a nice swim. One day, he noticed something interesting happening on the bookshelf near the river.

They go to the barn. They find some apples and carrots. They take them to the mule. They put them on the ground near the mule. They wait.

Just then, the owner of the motorcycle came out of the shop. He was a big man with a beard and a helmet. He saw Lily and Tom and was very angry.

Spot said, "I will go to the store to get a stamp. I am fast." Tim said, "I will support you, Spot. I will wait here."

There was a little caterpillar swimming in the water and it was having a difficult time. Adam got on his knees and reached out his hand to help it.

Suddenly, an elephant stomped into the clearing and roared. He was mad! Everyone else looked scared. The elephant turned to Bob and said, "You need to help me find my lost trunk!" 

When he reached his house, he was surprised to find his mother waiting for him. "Where have you been?" She asked. 

The little duck had paid the ultimate price for not following the advice of the voice. The moral of the story is to always act responsibly and pay attention to those who are trying to help you.
Once upon a time there were two friends, Sam and Lucy. Sam had an ugly oven. One day Sam asked Lucy if she knew how to make the oven look better. 

She began to kick the soccer ball. She kicked it hard across the backyard. She kicked it so hard that it went over the fence and she couldn't find it. 

"Here, use this to fix your dress," said the rabbit. The little girl was so happy and thanked the rabbit. From that day on, the rabbit and the little girl became good friends and played together every day in the forest.
Once upon a time, a little girl named Lily went outside to play. She saw a cricket hopping around in the grass. Lily thought the cricket was very cute.

But then, the ladder suddenly broke! Timmy fell down and hurt himself badly. His mom had to take him to the hospital. Timmy learned that sometimes, even when we feel happy and brave, we need to be careful and listen to others' advice.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to play in the park with her friends. One day, Lily and her friends saw dark clouds in the sky. They knew it was going to rain soon. 

Ben feels bad. He knows he did something wrong. He gives the red gem back to Sara. He says he is sorry.

Mom smiles. She has an idea.

They walked back home and the little girl talked to her mommy about the jet and how exciting it was. She knew that it was safe and would never be dangerous.
Once there was a mouse. The mouse liked to lean against the wall. It was all alone, until one day, it found a fake friend. The fake friend was a toy mouse. It was so clever that it leaned against the wall just like the real mouse.

Tommy nodded. He liked to laugh. He snuggled with grandma and wiped his tears. Grandma turned on the TV and looked for a funny show. She found one with a silly dog and a cat. They did funny things and made funny noises. Tommy and grandma watched them and laughed. Tommy felt better. He was comforted by grandma and the funny show. He was not sad anymore. He was happy.
Lila and Tom were twins who liked to organize their toys. They had many toys because their parents were wealthy and bought them new ones often. But they did not like to share their toys with each other or with their friends.

The children looked at one another and then smiled. "Sure! We'd love it if you'd play with us," said the same tall boy.

She ran to her mom and showed her the letter. Her mom read it out loud and they both smiled. From that day on, Lily loved playing in the empty chamber because she knew that sometimes, she might find a letter from her grandma.
Once upon a time, there was a boy named Timmy. Timmy loved to explore the world around him. One day, he found a noisy bug in his backyard. He wanted to see it up close, so he asked his mom for her microscope. 

Jack said, "That was foolish, Mark. We should talk about how to make things right with your friend." So Jack and Mark talked through the situation together. In the end, Mark promised to apologize to his friend and explain what had happened. Jack said, "That sounds like a plan. You are a smart kid, Mark!"
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lilly. Lilly was only three years old and she loved to skip. Every day she would skip down the street singing.

"Hello, we are Tom and Lily. We are playing in the park. We saw your cave and wanted to see what was inside. We are sorry if we bothered you." Lily said.

She closed her eyes and fell asleep. She had a good dream. She did not have a nightmare again. She was a regular girl who had regular dreams. And she knew how to display them.
Anna and Ben are friends. They like to play with toys and books. One day, Anna finds a telephone in her mom's room. It is big and heavy and has many buttons.

"It's a fishing hook, honey", Mom answered. "We can go fishing with it!"

Their mom watches them and smiles. She is proud of them. She thinks they are smart and kind. She hopes they will always be friends.
Tim likes trains. He has many trains at home. He plays with them every day. He makes them go fast and slow. He makes them stop and go. He makes them say choo-choo.

Lucy took a big spoonful of the stew and tasted it. It was so delicious! From then on, that little island was always known as Lucy's Island because of its amazing and spicy stew.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl who lived at the beach. Every day, she would take a bucket and shovel and build a sandcastle. She loved to watch the giant waves crashing against it. One day, she decided to build an extra big sandcastle!

Lily nodded. She hugged her dad back. She was still sorry, but she felt a little better.

It was a very bad decision. Inside the cave, John got lost and could not find his way out. He never came back...
Once upon a time, there was a copper bucket. It was empty. Then one day, a little boy came and picked it up. He said to himself, "I will fill it up!" So he went to the river and started to pour water into it. When it was full, he carried it back home. 

One day, her mommy encouraged her. She said “you can do it!� The little chick was so excited. She flew up in the air.

While they were gone, Lucy and Whiskers played in the house. Lucy said, "Whiskers, let's play hide and seek!" Whiskers meowed and they started to play. Lucy hid under the bed and Whiskers looked for her.

But while they were playing, they accidentally broke their parents' mixer. Ben and Jack were so scared and they ran away, not knowing what to do. 

"OK!" Sue says.

The animals in the forest were sad. Without the cloudy sky, it was too bright. But then, the clouds started to come back.

After that, Lily learned a valuable lesson about being careful and only going to places that she feels safe in. Although some things can be scary, if you stay brave, everything will be okay.
James was walking down the street with mommy. It was a sunny day, the sun was shining and the birds were singing.

Lily was so happy that she had helped the ornament get back where it belonged. From then on, every time she saw the ornament on the tree, she would do a little dance to show how proud she was of herself for being such a good helper. The end.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to play outside and look for seashells on the beach. One day, she saw a weird looking boat in the harbor. She went to ask her mommy about it.

The mouse was surprised and he said, "Why should I stay?". The little girl said, "Because I am lonely. You can be my friend". 

Ann shouted, "I'm gonna play in the mist!" so she quickly ran outside.

“That is a magic stone,� said a voice from behind a tree.

He was so polite that he said 'hello' and 'thank you' to everyone he came across. He heard them call him the 'polite skeleton' and he was so proud! 

"Well, you can look at the color. The ripe ones are bright red and shiny. The unripe ones are green or yellow and dull. You can also feel them. The ripe ones are firm and smooth. The unripe ones are hard and rough. You can also smell them. The ripe ones have a sweet and fresh smell. The unripe ones have a sour and bitter smell," the farmer explained.

"Tom, don't go near the pit! It might be dangerous. There could be snakes or bugs or traps," Sue said.

That was the wonderful story of Lucy and Spike!
Once upon a time there was a boy who looked for an adventure. He ran down to the beach, hoping to find something fun.

So they raced back to the house and when they reached the door, the girl said, "I picked seven flowers and you?" The boy said, "I picked eight!" So the boy was the winner of the race. They both smiled and went inside the house.
Molly and her dad were walking in the park one day. As they walked, they could see lots of different animals playing. One animal was a small squirrel!

The second bird said, "No, I found it first! You are trying to take it away from me!"

"OK," Anna says. "That will be fun."

Jack drank the special drink, and he felt much better. He was still hungry, but his mom said he could have some food soon.

"I am sorry, Lily. I was just playing. My bear is not mean or scary. He is nice and friendly. He likes you and your doll. Can I see your doll? Can we play together?" Ben asked, smiling.

Mom sighed. She was not happy, but she was not angry. She knew they did not mean to break it.

The elephant was happy to help. Other animals admired him for being so brave and strong. They said he was the toughest animal in the jungle. 

When she reached the lake, the girl was amazed by the sparkly, still water. She put on her special swimsuit and jumped into the lake. She swam around for a long time, feeling the powerful strength of the water.

Molly smiled as she watched Richie slowly make his way out of the forest. He waved farewell and said, "Goodbye, Molly!"
Once upon a time, a little deer named Timmy was walking in the forest. Suddenly, he saw a disgusting and slimy puddle. He didn't want to touch it and so he stepped aside. But then he heard a strange sound coming from the puddle.

Mom and Dad heard the noise and came to the living room. They saw the mess and the dog and Lily and Ben. They were shocked and scared. They took the dog away and helped Lily and Ben. They were not happy. They were mad.

Wendy called out to the fairy, “Hello! What’s wrong?� But the fairy didn't answer. She just kept flying away.

The deer slept peacefully. Just when the children were about to move on, the deer opened its beautiful eyes and looked at them. "Don't be scared," said the first child, "You can rest here".

The two best friends hugged and went back to playing together. They never stopped having fun!
Once upon a time, there was a beautiful evening with a purple sky. All the animals outside were busy singing and playing in the sun.

Daniel nodded and smiled. He was having the best time ever! 

When he was done, Ralph asked, "What are we gonna do with it?"

At the park, Lily saw a fragile butterfly. She wanted to play with it. She tried to turn around to catch it, but she was not fast enough. The butterfly flew away. Lily was sad and wanted to find the butterfly again.

Suddenly, they started to quarrel. 

But then the plane hit some bad air. The plane shook and bounced. Sara and Ben felt scared. They held Mum and Dad's hands. Mum and Dad said it was OK. They said it was just a little bump.

"Sure, Ben, we can share the mighty sock!" Lila said, smiling. "But first, let's rest a bit. We played a lot and we are tired."

So, off they went to ask Mommy where they could find the glue.

One day, Tim met a girl named Sue. Sue was playing with a toy horse. Tim asked, "Can I play with you?" Sue said, "Yes, let's play together!" So, Tim and Sue played knights with their toys.

Her mommy kissed her on the forehead and said, "Goodnight, Lily. Sleep tight." Lily closed her eyes and fell asleep fast, dreaming of rainbows and unicorns. The end.
Once upon a time, there was a boy named Tim who loved to ride his bike. He always wore a helmet to keep his head safe. One day, Tim went on a bike ride with his friend, but he forgot to put on his helmet. His friend saw this and frowned because he knew it wasn't safe.

The little boy continued down the path, wondering what the rope could have been for. Suddenly, he heard a loud noise coming from behind him. He looked back, and was amazed to see a magical bridge connecting the two sides of the path.

When he arrived, the weak friend was very happy to see the prince. They played together and had lots of fun. The prince even invited his friend to come and visit the castle another day when he was feeling stronger. 

Lily gave the bracelet to the poor boy, and he was so happy that he hugged her. He thanked her for her kindness, and Lily felt happy too. She learned that helping others can make them happy and make her happy too.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to play outside and explore. One day, she saw a big grill in her backyard. It was hot and had black lines on it. Her mom warned her to stay away because it was dangerous.

<INSTRUCTION> What idea did Joan have? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She had an idea about going out to the park again, and playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

But, a hurt bird was on the ground. The bird could not fly. The deer wanted to help. The bird was scared of the deer at first. The deer said, "I will not hurt you. I want to help."

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan wanted to do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Joan still wanted to play. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

So they opened the door and went inside. Everything was strange and new. They heard strange noises and saw lots of machines. 

As the sun began to set, Sammy's mom said it was time to go back to their own tree. Sammy was sad to leave his cousins, but he knew he would see them again soon. He packed his things and said goodbye to his new friends. Sammy and his family returned home, happy and tired from their adventure.
Once upon a time, there was an old lady. She was very old and her hair was white like snow. She loved to sit on her porch and watch the children play with their football in the park. One day, a little boy accidentally kicked the ball too hard and it landed in the old lady's yard. 

Suddenly, the ghost said: "Don't be scared, Molly. I'm friendly. I'm just here to make the lake more fun by splashing around."

Bob was a bit surprised and said, “Mom, why are you drying the motor?�

One day, Maria was playing in the garden next to her house when something special happened. She saw a colourful truck driving quickly down the road. Maria ran to the truck and saw that it was filled with fuel. 

One day, he decided to go for a walk, but he quickly became annoyed. Everywhere he looked, there were leaves and stones on the ground, and he had to keep stopping to clean them away.

Anna was sad. She wept. She said, "You are mean. You are not my friend. Give me back my red block."

Inside the tires were two dependable, glowing rocks. Sara gasped, "Mama, these rocks are pretty!" Mama agreed, "They are dependable. They won't change or go away like the clouds do."

Sam thought for a moment. "Very high, like the sky. We need a lot of blocks. Can we use some of your blocks too?"

His mom, who was standing at the edge of the land, yelled back, “I can see that, you did it! I'm so glad.�

The cop liked what she saw, so she gave Bob a small toy car in return for sharing his truck. Bob was so excited and thanked the cop. He gave the truck to the cop and she waved goodbye. Bob ran inside to show his parents the toy car. They were so proud of him for sharing his toys. 

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan learn? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She learnt that she could prevent getting too hot by playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

<INSTRUCTION> What were the two sisters doing? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> The two sisters were having so much fun until they heard a loud noise. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Sarah, not wanting to disappoint her best friend, made a promise. "Yes, you can have the copper," she said.

One day, Lila saw a sailor. He was on a big boat. He wore a blue hat and a white shirt. He smiled at Lila and waved. Lila waved back. She wanted to dance with the sailor. She ran to the boat and climbed on. The sailor was happy to see her. He said, "Hello, little girl. Do you want to dance with me?"

Ayla was so curious about the wire that she went to find her mom. "What is this, Mommy?" she asked, holding up the wire. 

<INSTRUCTION> What idea did Joan have? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She had an idea about going out to the park again, and playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

He asked his mom, but she said she didn't know. So Jack decided to find out. He picked up the new board and opened it. Inside were lots of bright and colourful pieces. Jack was so excited to know what game was inside the board.

Danny smiled and said, “I knew you could do it!� 

One day, the soldier heard a sound. It was a ringing noise. He looked around and saw a bell. He knew it was time to go back home. The war was over!

So they went to the beach. Maria was so excited! She took out her toy guitar and began to play. Everyone smiled as they heard the music.

The next day, Sasha's mom took her to a special shop. There, Sasha saw the most amazing gift ever.

John smiled and said, "That’s ok. I can come every day to keep the pitch with you."

Mummy said, "That's called a printer. It can make things out of words."

Sarah was very understanding and said, “That's okay. I'll be here when you need me.�

And so they did! The two peanuts had a great time eating the different kinds of peanuts until their bowl was empty. 

"Maybe it is hiding behind the tree," Lily said. She walked towards the tree and called out, "Hello, dog, are you there? Can you answer me?"

One sunny day, they were playing with a soft toy. The cat grabbed the toy by the neck with her paw. The dog grabbed the toy by the neck with his mouth. They both pulled and pulled, but neither of them wanted to let go.

One day, Lily goes to the park with her mom. She sees a big bin with a sign on it. The sign has a picture of a can and a bottle and a word. Lily asks her mom what the word is. Her mom signs, "Recycle. It means to use things again, not waste them."

As the sun started to set, the bird flew back to its cozy nest. It was happy to be home and safe. The bird fell asleep, dreaming of flying in the sky and singing beautiful songs.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to wander around her backyard and explore. One day, she saw a big, angry dog coming towards her. Lily was scared and her knee started to hurt.

He lined the boat up carefully and said goodbye as he watched the boat sail away. It went very far, until he couldn't see it anymore. 

Ben looks at Anna. He sees that she is pale and shaking. He also sees that the dog is not happy. He thinks that Anna is right.

<INSTRUCTION> What Anna and Bella do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Anna and Bella laughed, knowing that the table in the garden was a very special place. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

One day, a brave little bear came up to him. The bear said, "I dare you to come outside, elephant. It's sunny outside, and it's fun!"

They walk slowly to the bush. Max follows them. He sniffs the air and barks.

When it was time to go home, Danny was sad. He thanked his mum for the fantastic day and said he was very grateful for the amazing surprise. He knew he was going to remember it for a long time.
Once upon a time there was a poor alligator. He was always very shy and didn't have many friends. One day, he met a friendly little girl. She was so kind and asked him if he wanted to play. The alligator was so surprised and happy, he said yes right away. 

Timmy asked his sister, "Can you please be quiet? I'm trying to look at this bug." 

In the dark, a tiny fairy named Lily came to save the tooth. She looked under the pillow and found it. But it was so dark that she could not see well. Lily bumped into a toy and made a loud noise.

"Let's light the fire and make him cozy," Tom said.

Tim wanted to keep the cream all for himself. He thought of a plan. He took the cream and went to the woods. Tim dug a big hole and buried the cream. But, Spot saw him. Spot looked troubled. He knew it was not good to hide things from others.

One day, Daisy and Tom decided to go for a walk. But when Daisy wanted to go one way and Tom wanted to go the other way, they started to disagree.

The man takes the dog and leaves. Anna and Ben go home. They tell their moms what happened. Their moms hug them and take them to the doctor. The doctor gives them medicine and bandages. He says, "You are brave. You will be okay. But you should be careful. Not all dogs are friendly. Some dogs are dangerous. You should always ask before you pet a dog."

Timmy told his mom all about his walk and how he discovered the rock. His mom was proud of him for being such a good explorer. From that day on, Timmy loved to go on walks and discover new things.
Once upon a time, there was a girl named Lily. She loved to help her mom in the kitchen. One day, Lily's mom brought home a new dishwasher. It was big and shiny, and Lily thought it was so cool. 

"Those are tusks, Sam. They are like big teeth that grow out of the elephant's mouth. They are made of ivory, which is very hard and white. Some elephants use them to dig or fight. But they are also very precious and some bad people want to take them away. That is why we have to protect the elephants," mom explained.

One day, they decided to play hide and seek again while their parents were out. Sara was the seeker and Ben was the hider. He ran to the wardrobe and opened the door. He saw a big suitcase on the floor that was not there before. He thought it would be a good hiding place, so he opened it and climbed inside. He closed the lid and waited for Sara to find him.

Mummy said, "Yes, but just for a little while, Mandy. It's cold outside - there's even some ice on the ground. So you must wrap up warm!"

Suddenly, he saw something strange. It was big and white, and had funny long arms and strange long fingers. Sam was a bit scared, until it spoke.

Sally looked for the ball all day. She finally found it near a big tree. Sally was so happy to see her ball again. She picked it up and gave it a big hug. They went back to their backyard and played together. The ball was happy because it trusted Sally, and they were never apart again.
Once upon a time, there was a big park. In the park, there was a statue. The statue was a man with a big hat. Many people liked to look at the statue. But, there was a boy who did not care about the statue.

And so Roger and Ricky were friends from then on. They raced around the meadow every single day and had lots of fun. The end.
Once upon a time, there lived a little girl called Molly. She was only three years old and loved exploring.

Mary was so excited, she started running around. She wanted to play with everything at once. Then, Daddy said, "Let's complete the road". Mary stopped, wondering what this meant. 

Lily pushed the button and the train went. She was happy and said, "Wow, this is fun! You are very smart, Sam. I admire you."

When they were finished, Mama smiled. She said that everyone did a great job. She reminded them that it is important to always stay curious and practice to become better at something.

But that night, Lily had the same nightmare again. This time, the dragon caught her and took her away. Lily never woke up.

"No, I am not OK!" Tom says. "My arm is broken! I need help!"

They ran to the bathroom in the park. But the bathroom was dirty and smelly. It had no water and no soap. It had rats and spiders in it. Lily and Ben were scared and sad.

"You're welcome, Lily. You will feel better soon. Just keep drinking water and resting. And taking your medicine. Even if it's bitter. It's worth it," the doctor said.

"You're welcome. He likes you too. Maybe we'll see you again at the lake," the man said.

One day she set out on a journey to figure out more about it. As she was walking along, she saw a beautiful rainbow in the sky.

Mommy says, "Lily, I know you are smart, but you have to follow the rules. Writing on the wall and on the sofa is not allowed. You have to write on paper only. If you write on paper, I will be happy. And you can show me what you write."

One day the team decided to do something different. They all spread out and started looking for exciting things to do. They went to the park, explored a cave full of spiders, and built giant sandcastles on the beach.

Jill smiled and said, "There are lots of different languages that we can use! I have a book that can supply us with a lot of different ways to communicate."

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan learn? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She learnt that she could prevent getting too hot by playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

At the store, Lucy saw lots of things she liked. But her mommy said she could only pick one thing. So she chose a big, round beach ball. Then she happily ran back to the merry-go-round to show her friends. 

One day, it was Tim's birthday. He was so happy because he would receive a big gift. His mom and dad told him, "Tim, if you want your gift, you must clean your room first." Tim didn't want to do it, but he wanted his gift, so he started to clean.

Chantelle stopped in the shade and looked around. She saw some rocks and she decided to create something. She closed her eyes and imagined something special. 

"Wow, Tom, it is very rare!" Lily said, looking at the flower. "Can I have it, please?"

"No, Lily, I don't want to open the book," Ben says. "I want to play with the toys. The book is boring and hard. You can't read the words. They are too big and too many."

Ben shook his head. "No, it is not good. It will make your face funny."

"Tom, where are you?" Lily calls. She looks around and does not see Tom. She is worried. She gets off the slide and runs to the swing. She thinks Tom might be there. But he is not.

The bear thanked the old lady,
Once upon a time, there was an orange elephant. He really liked to wave to his friends. The elephant would wave to the animals in the zoo when he walked by them. One day, a little girl came up to the elephant and said, “Hi!� The elephant was so happy he started waving to the girl. He waved his trunk in the air and made the girl giggle.

<INSTRUCTION> What idea did Joan have? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She had an idea about going out to the park again, and playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

"Good," Mom said. "Now, let's go inside and have some lunch. You are safe and loved, and that's what matters most."
Lila was a little girl who liked to look at the stars. Every night, she would wake up and go to the window to see the bright dots in the sky. She wondered what they were and if there was anyone living on them.

The modest pilot was very grateful for the child's help.
The curtains were hanging cleanly in the windows of the little room. Every day, the girl would run in and whisper secrets to them. She hadn't noticed it before, but today, when she was talking in her very quietest voice, the curtains rustled as if in response. Her eyes grew wider as she heard what sounded like an echo of her own whisper. 

First was the kitchen. Out of the box came all the plates, forks, and spoons. Next came the bedroom. Daddy and mummy needed to unpack the mattress. It was very old and needed to be put on the bed. So mummy and daddy worked together to unpack the mattress.

The butterfly smiled. "That's very nice," he said. "But what if something happens to it?"

They hugged and laughed. They were happy. They did not need to trade back. They had made a new friend.
Lily was deaf. She could not hear what the teacher said in the classroom. She could not hear what the other kids said to her. She felt sad and lonely.

He kept trying and eventually the foolish boy thought he'd made it work. So he set off to fly the helicopter. But it still wasn't working! He flew too high up into the sky. 

As they got closer, they saw that the flower was in pain. "Ouch!" cried the flower. "I need help!" Ben and Bella wanted to help the flower feel better. They knew that flowers need water to grow and bloom, so they quickly went to find some.

The forest was full of surprises and Emma enjoyed every minute of her adventure. She was so happy to find such amazing textures and she couldn't wait to come back and explore again.
Jimmy was a young boy. He was always curious and loved to learn new things. One day, while he was playing in the garden, he stumbled upon a strange object. It was a round, pointy spike- it looked very impressive. He quickly ran inside to ask his mom what it was. She told him it was a magical spike and that it was used to learn surprise things. 

But then she noticed how tired she was. Emily wanted to hug her mom and dad so she followed the path back home. 

Mummy explained, "We can't play with the cord Teddy. It's too special. We just use it to talk to Grandma, but it won't last forever. That's why we have to talk to each other as much as we can."

Lucy felt sad and started to cry. But then her dad came in. He saw the broken refrigerator and he said, "It looks like it was already broken. So I don't think Lucy needs to be punished." 

One day, Lily's mommy and daddy went out and left her with Mrs. Smith. Lily felt scared because she didn't know Mrs. Smith very well. But Mrs. Smith told her to trust her and that everything would be okay.

When Lily woke up from her nap, she saw Brownie on her bed. She was so happy and eager to play with him, but she noticed that he was dirty and dusty. So, she decided to rub him with her soft blanket to make him clean and cuddly again.

Sally worked hard to do her best. She asked her friends for help and read lots of tips. After a few weeks, the test was available to take. She was so excited to see if she could be successful.

The gear worked hard all day and was happy to have the chance to be so smart. By the end of the day, the gear was tired. So it found a spot, settled down and sat for one more rest.

One day, Miss Lily asked the class a question. She said, "What color is the grass outside?" The kids thought for a moment and then shouted, "Green!" Miss Lily smiled and said, "Good job, everyone!"

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan learn? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She learnt that she could prevent getting too hot by playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Chantelle smiled and said, "Mom, look what I created!"

Finally, the soup was ready. Lily's grandma said it was the best soup she ever tasted. She gave Lily a big hug and thanked her for being such a good helper. Lily felt happy and proud. She knew that stirring the soup and being alert was important. From that day on, she loved to help her grandma in the kitchen.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to jog in the wild forest near her house. One day, she met a rabbit who was sad. "Why are you sad?" asked Lily. "I want to study, but I don't know how," replied the rabbit. 

Sam grabbed a rock from the floor and placed it on the scale. He carefully moved the weight around until it reached zero.

Anna screamed. She did not like frogs. She was scared. She ran away from Tom. She said, "No, Tom, no! I don't want a frog! That's not a surprise, that's a trick!"

John sadly nodded and Mummy took him home. The ice-cream was all gone, but the embarrassment he felt was not.
Jack and Jill were walking up the hill. Jack said to Jill, "I am thirsty. Let's get some water from the river."

Lisa showed her mum the itch and her mum quickly realised they had to go to the doctor. Lisa was embarrassed but knew she had to go anyway.

Margo smiled and said, "Thank you Stella! What should we do first?"

Bob was glad that he could help. He felt really happy as he continued his journey to find food.
Once upon a time there were two friends, Joe and Jane. One day, they disagreed on what to do. Joe wanted to go the park, while Jane wanted to stay at home and watch TV.

Suddenly, she heard her mom calling from downstairs, "What are you doing up there?" The little girl said, "I'm stirring the ceiling!" Her mom laughed and said, "Be careful, sweetheart." The little girl carefully stirred the ceiling back and forth until it was all mixed up. She was so proud of herself and excited to show her mom. 

Suddenly a voice shouted, "Hey! Don't grab it!" Linda jumped back in shock. A mysterious figure was standing there, she had never seen anything like it before. He asked her, "Do you know what this is?".

Gary knew he had to do something, so he decided to share his sausages with his brother. He cut them in half, and shared them with his brother.

John was so intrigued by the ceiling that he decided to give it a try himself. He slowly reached up and touched the open ceiling with his little hand. It felt strange and smooth! He giggled and laughed.

Mom hears them from the kitchen. She smiles. She is happy that they are cleaning and having fun. She says they are good helpers. She says they can have a treat after dinner. Tom and Mia are happy too. They finish cleaning and hug Mom. They are proud of their muscles. They are hungry for their treat.
Lily and Ben were best friends. They liked to play chess with their toy pieces. They had a big board with black and white squares. They moved their pieces and tried to catch the king.

Suddenly, a bunny hopped out! The bunny was so excited to see the new truck. It hopped up and down, wanting to explore.

He walked closer and saw that it was a small bear. The fox was so happy! At last, he had found a friend. He jumped up and down and wagged his tail, and soon the bear was jumping too! 

Mummy said, "Hurry up, Lucy! We have to leave now. Shall we go get your coat?".

Billy looked up at Polly and said, "Yes, but I can't fly as high as you." Polly smiled and said, "That's okay, we can still have fun together."

One day, a sneaky fox came to the hive. He wanted to steal the honey. The fox said, "I will take the honey when the bees are not looking." So, he waited for the right time.

One day, Joe saw a lovely bird in the sky. He was so amazed and pointed at it. 

Lila and Tom were scared. They did not want to lose their toys. They did not want to get hurt. They hugged each other and held their toys tight.

Her friend, Timmy, came over to see what happened.

The animal said: "My name is Finders. I don't have a home to belong to."

A week went by, and the cow and the calf were waiting. Finally, the man returned with another bag of apples and he offered them to the calf. The calf grinned with delight and the cow was relieved, for she had taught the calf to trust.

The mouse watched as the clumsy bear stumbled around the cave, eating the berries.

Ann was so touched. She hugged her mom tightly and said, “Thank you, mommy, I love it!� She put on the jewel and felt very special. From that day onwards, she was never too shy to show off her pretty, sparkly jewel.
The family were out painting in the park in the winter. It was cold, but they were having fun. Dad had a pot of bright green paint. He asked little Toby, who was three, to help him paint. 

"Melt it?" Lily asked, confused.

Lily's dad said, "Let's play a game. I spy with my little eye something that is yellow." Lily looked around and saw a yellow flower. "I see it! It's the yellow flower!" she exclaimed. Her dad smiled and said, "Great job, Lily! You are very observant."

Joe thought about it for a moment, and then he said, "You're right. From now on, I will think before I decide to do something."

Lily said, "Sure! Let's play a game where we both wear masks and pretend we're superheroes." 

"Not yet, my loves. You have to be patient. The turkey needs more time to cook. It is not good to eat raw turkey. It can make you sick." Mom said.

In the store, Sally saw many toys. She was careful when looking at each one. She wanted to find the perfect toy for Tom. Then, she saw a toy car with a turn. When she pushed the car, it would go straight and then turn all by itself. Sally knew Tom would love it.

Max laughed and said, "I can't tell you now. You have to come back on Wednesday and find out!" Lily was excited and couldn't wait for Wednesday to come. Finally, Wednesday arrived and Lily went back to the park to see Max. He was wearing the same unusual hat and had a surprise for her. He brought out a big bag of candy and shared it with her. From that day on, they became good friends and looked forward to every Wednesday together.
Once upon a time, there was a farmer named Jack. Jack had a big farm with lots of animals and plants. One day, Jack went to his tomato field to pick some tomatoes. The tomatoes were big and red, and Jack was happy.

And they both went on their way, with a smile and hope in their hearts.
One day, Joe went to the pool to go swimming. Joe loved the water, it felt nice and cool. He saw two friends there, Ken and Sue. 

One night, Mia had a dream. In her dream, a friendly bird talked to her. The bird said, "Mia, the big iron key you found can open a magic door. This door will lead you to a room full of new toys."

On the other end of the phone was a little girl named Lily. Lily was scared because there was a fire in her house. Jack told Lily to stay calm and that he would come to help her. Jack quickly got into his fire truck and drove to Lily's house.

"Are you okay, Mia?" Tom asked.

But the dog said no again. He said he had to go.

They decided to keep the picture as a souvenir of their day in the park. They laughed about it later and showed it to their dad. He laughed too and said, "That's a great picture, Ben. You are a star!"
Lily and Tom are young. They like to play with blocks. They have many blocks of different colors and shapes. They can build houses, towers, cars and animals with their blocks.

Spot said, "Let's play near the big tree!" But Kitty was scared. She said, "I heard there might be an earthquake soon. Let's play somewhere safe." Spot didn't listen and ran to the big tree.

His mother smiled and said, "Yes, we can! It's so special to see something so beautiful after the rain."

Lily was brave. She stepped forward and said, "Hello, lion. You are very big and strong. But I am not afraid of you. I have a dog at home. He is my friend. He barks and wags his tail. Do you have a friend, lion?" The lion looked at Lily and blinked. He stopped roaring. He licked his paw and rubbed his head. He seemed to like Lily. He nodded and said, "Yes, I have a friend. She is a lioness. She is in the next cage. She is very beautiful and smart. She hunts and plays with me. We are happy together." Lily smiled and said, "That's great, lion. I'm happy for you. Can I see your friend?" The lion said, "Of course. Come with me. I'll show you." He walked to the next cage and called his friend. The lioness came and greeted Lily and the other children. They were amazed and curious. They asked the lion and the lioness many questions. They learned a lot about them. They thanked them and said goodbye. They went to see the other animals. They had a great time. They did a great class. Lily was very happy. She made a new friend. She couldn't wait to tell her mom and dad. She thought, "This is the best day ever."
Lily and Ben were playing in the tent in the backyard. They had a flashlight and some toys. They liked to pretend they were camping in the woods.

One day, Maxi was playing a game of pretending she was a pirate. She had her measure tucked in her belt and was pretending to explore the high seas. She sailed around, searching for treasure and adventure.

"Oops, sorry!" Tom said. "I didn't mean to do that!"

Jack was very scared. He knew he should not have taken the toy. He started to cry and snivel. His father asked him again, "Did you take this from somewhere?" 

Lily said, "That's okay, I want to see the bird." Finally, they made it around the tree and saw the bird up close. Lily said, "Wow, it's even greater up close! Can we come back and see the bird again tomorrow?" Mommy said, "Of course, we can come back any time you want." And they both smiled as they watched the great bird fly away.
Once upon a time, there was a spider named Spidey. Spidey lived in a big tree in the forest. Spidey loved to make cobwebs. He made the best cobwebs in the whole forest. Everyone knew that.

It wasn't easy but eventually she made it to the top. Looking down, she could feel proud of her accomplishment. And when she looked up, she saw sunshine, bright and beautiful.

It was a giant yellow ear!

<INSTRUCTION> What idea did Joan have? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She had an idea about going out to the park again, and playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

The dog, who was watching from the ground, was amazed. "How can the bird go so fast?" he wondered.

"What is a stitch?" Sara asked, curious.

They said goodbye and Jimmy started walking home again, feeling excited with his new treasures. He couldn't wait to show his mom what he traded for.
Once upon a time there was a boy called Frank. Frank was three years old. One day, he decided to go on a walk.

Jill shouted, "Come back! You can't take that!"

Lily's mom saw her crying and asked what happened. Lily told her about the broken doll. Mom said, "Don't worry, we can fix it together. You're so brave for telling me." 

But when it was time to go home, everyone was sad. They wanted to keep on freezing and playing together. Soon, they all waved goodbye and promised to have lots more fun together again soon.
Once upon a time there was a girl called Emma. Emma loved to build things. One day Emma found lots of different colours of squash on the ground. She decided to make something special with the squash.

When Nick got home he regreted not being more careful. He was so fast that he didn't get to pet the friendly dog. He promised to be more careful next time. 

But then, his friend Billy came over and saw the medal. Billy said, "I want that medal. Can I have it?"

One day, they find a can of fuel in the garage. They think it is for their truck. They pour some fuel into the truck and turn it on. The truck makes a loud noise and smoke. Tom and Sam are happy. They drive the truck around the garage.

Mom came and helped Sara. She checked her for bumps and bruises. She said, "You are brave, Sara. You are okay. But you have to be careful on the slide. It is too high for you and Max."

They go home and have a snack and a nap. They dream of nature and deep hills and treasures and castles and dragons. They are friends. They are explorers.
Lily and Ben were bored. They wanted to play outside, but it was raining. They looked at the window and saw a big puddle. They had an idea.

"Of course, we can," his dad said. "But first, let's go and see if we can find your ball. Maybe someone else found it and wants to play golf too."
Lily and Sam were playing in the park with their mom. They liked to slide, swing, and run on the grass. It was a sunny day, but a little cold. Mom told them to wear their jackets.

They still didn't like the storm, but they knew they were safe and loved.
Lily was sick. She had a bad cough and a sore throat. She did not want to play or eat. She only wanted to sleep. Her mom was worried. She gave Lily a pill to make her feel better. But Lily did not like the pill. It was big and bitter. She spit it out.

Each day, the spirit moved around the hollow, exploring the tree. This made the spirit happy, and it was no longer uncomfortable. 

"Good idea, Sam. I have a medium blue block. This can go on top of the red block," Lily said.

Kate wanted to add the circle to her toy box right away. She took it out and rolled it around, and it moved so quickly! She laughed and smiled as the circle whizzed around the room. Kate was so happy with her new circle. 

But then, they heard a rumour. The rumour was that if someone goes too far into the jungle, they will never come back. Even though the rumour was popular, Harry and Jimmy decided to go anyway. 

They look at their ball. They have an idea. They pick up the ball and throw it at the bird. The ball hits the bird and makes it go away. The bird squawks and flies to a tree. Ben and Lily cheer and hug each other. They are very brave.

Her nosy neighbor, Mrs. Brown, saw Lily taking care of the bird and asked what was going on. Lily told her about the bird's broken wing and how she was trying to help it. Mrs. Brown said that Lily was very kind and that she should be careful not to spoil the bird too much.

"OK," Ben agreed. They ran towards the lady and smiled.

The fly flew away in a hurry. He was feeling a bit scared. But then he saw something even prettier - a rainbow up in the sky. It was so big and colourful! He just had to go and look closer. 

Sue said to Tom, "Let's have a fun night party!" Tom meowed happily, and they started to plan. They put up pretty lights and set out yummy food. They invited all their friends, like the dog, the bird, and the rabbit.

One day, Lila followed her dad upstairs and he opened the door of an attic. The attic was filled with fascinating things. There were old boxes and toys with bright colors. Lila couldn't believe her eyes! She ran around, touching everything and picking up treasures to keep.

"I'm sorry, kids, but you can't keep them or buy them," he says. "These toys are not for sale. They are part of my collection. I only show them to people who love toys like you do."

So Bob hopped as hard as he could and jumped right on top of the cloud. He was shocked! He was so high up! For a moment, Bob felt like he could touch the sun. After a while, Bob started to feel scared and had to quickly make his way back down.

Timmy's mom smiled and said, "I love you too, Timmy. I'm so happy you're not hungry anymore." Timmy smiled and gave her mom a big hug. 

The infant laughed and giggle as they all swam around. The mommy and daddy couldn't help but laugh too.

"Mix means to stir things together, like this," Mom says, showing them the bowl. "Why do you ask?"

Suddenly, a big, tough frog jumped out from the bushes. Bill was so scared, he blinked his eyes and scurried away.

Suddenly he heard a loud noise. It was a big truck. He looked down and saw the truck speeding towards him. He was so scared! He tried to climb down, but it was too hard. The truck was getting closer and closer.

The moral of the story is to always appreciate what we have and to be careful not to damage delicate things when exploring new spaces.
Lisa and Billy were playing in the backyard one day. Billy was sad and he started to complain.

The fox told the deer, "You must guess the color of my tail. If you guess right, you will get a big horn." The deer thought and said, "Is it red?" The fox laughed and said, "No, it is not red. You guessed wrong. You will not get a big horn."

Sue said to Tim, "Do you think we can climb the tree?" Tim just shrugged, not sure if they could do it. They decided to try and climb the tree anyway. Sue put her veil down on the ground so it wouldn't get dirty.

The other racers were so disappointed, but the racer with the new car was so happy. He had remained in the lead and won the race.
Once there was a mom and a boy. The boy asked his mom to listen to some jazz. She said, "ok".

From that day on, Ducky learned an important lesson. He realized that sometimes things that look fun can be dangerous. He promised to always be careful and listen to his mother's advice. And whenever he saw a bright and shiny object, he would remember to think twice before playing with it.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to play at the shore, where the water meets the sand. One day, she saw a silly crab walking along the shore. The crab was moving sideways and Lily thought it looked funny. 

Inside the room, Jack saw the jar of mints, lying on the bed. Jack happily ran over to it, knowing he had found what he was looking for.
One day, little Anna and her mom were walking through the east side of the park. It was a nice sunny day and Anna was skipping along. Suddenly she stopped.

"Of course, Lily," Lily's dad said. "We love to skip with you."

Ben shook his head. "No, Sara, don't go. It is dangerous. He might eat us."

The little girl said goodbye and thanked the bear. The bear thanked her too, and put his watch back around his neck. He smiled, happy to have his special watch back around his neck again.
Once there was a little girl called Emily. She was only three years old and was always very thin.

The Tiger made his family very happy. Everyone was excited and felt the tiger was a blessing. But the tiger got more and more aggressive as time went by. The old man tried to look after it, but it started to be a danger to everyone in the town. 

"Look, Anna, this is a big cake. It has a lot of candles and frosting. Maybe it is someone's birthday," Tom says.

Winter was so excited! He thanked the fairy and began exploring. He made many new friends and enjoyed discovering all the wonderful things in the magical world. 

Suddenly, he heard a loud bang. The door had closed behind him. He was scared. He ran to the door and tried to open it. But the orange key was gone. He had dropped it somewhere. He could not find it. He could not unlock the door. He was trapped.

"Are you ready, Ben?" Lily asked, holding the boat.

One day, Sara found a big box. She thought, "This will be perfect for Fluffy's new home!" Sara used crayons to make the box pretty. She drew flowers, trees, and the sun on it. Inside the box, she put a soft blanket for Fluffy to sleep on.

The little girl had a wonderful time playing with her ornaments and making her special place even more beautiful. Her garden was so very nice that it was like something out of a storybook! She was very glad for all of the fun she had with her ornaments.
Once upon a time there was a plane in the sky. It made a funny noise and was going on an adventure. But then something went wrong and the plane started to shake. The people in the plane got scared and started to panic.

One day, Benny was eating a carrot when his friend, a squirrel named Sammy, came to visit. "Hi, Benny! What are you doing?" asked Sammy. "Eating a carrot," replied Benny. "Do you want to play?" asked Sammy. "No, I'm too lazy," said Benny.

So Sue and Mom took the black hook and started fishing. They tossed it into the water and splashed around with it. They waited and waited, until Sue suddenly felt something tugging on the black hook.

At the next jazz dance party, Lily showed off her new move. Her friend, Timmy, saw her and said, "Wow, Lily! That move was so cool! Can you teach me how to do it?" Lily was happy to teach him and they both danced together, kneeling and spinning around.

He reaches for a button. He pushes it. Beep!

"How does that sound, Whippy? Would you like some jam?" he asked.

Tim and his mom made popcorn together. They both enjoyed eating the popcorn. Tim was very excited and happy that he was allowed to have popcorn after eating his lunch.
One day, a unique parrot named Polly lived in a big tree. Polly loved to soar high in the sky. She would fly up and up, then come back down to her tree.

As they played, Tim would strike his sword and Sue would ride her horse. They had a lot of fun together. They became good friends and played every day. And they lived happily ever after.
One sunny day, a pale cat named Tim went outside to play on the lawn. He saw his friend, a dog named Max. They liked to play together.

The small boy laughed and said, “I found it hidden in the ground!� Then he started to tease his friend, telling him that he couldn’t find one like it.

She grabbed some of leaves and twigs from around the tree and used them to create a stage. Then she began her performance.

The end.
Once upon a time, there was a girl named Cindy. She was very special because she could grow things with her magical spell. Wherever she went she would cast her spell and flowers would grow out of the ground. Even bees and butterflies followed her around! Everyone was so impressed by her magic.

But on their way, they noticed something strange. It was a bird, perched high up in a tree. It looked scared, shivering and chirping.

She hid under the sheet and waited for her friends to find her. They looked everywhere but they couldn't find her. Lily giggled as she heard her friends calling her name. She was happy that the clear sheet helped her hide so well.

One day, they found a special card that they both wanted. They started to quarrel about who would get it. Lily said, "I saw it first!" but Max said, "I want it more!" They argued and argued until they both got upset and went home.

Mama hugged Bo and said, “It makes me so happy when you want something. But, Mama and Papa need to spoil you with other things - like hugs and kisses.� Bo smiled and walked on.
Once upon a time, there was a beautiful queen who lived in a large castle. Every day, people from the kingdom bow in respect to their queen. One day, the queen was feeling a bit frustrated and wanted to go outside and enjoy the fresh air. 

The fox quickly went inside and started to mess with all of Pete's things. He moved things around, ate all of Pete's food, and soon the nest was a total disaster. 

The squirrel was happy and thanked the little girl for the corn. Then it happily scampered away into the woods.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl called Sarah. She loved watching airplanes take off and land at the nearby airport. One day, Sarah asked her mom a question. "Mom, can I become a pilot one day?"

"I don't know, Lily. It looks like a bird, but bigger and faster. And it has no feathers. Maybe it is a special vehicle. A flying vehicle!" Ben said.

The car drove down the road until it stopped at an ice cream shop. The boy got out of the car and ran inside. He bought a delicious strawberry ice cream cone. 

The little girl enjoyed her adventure so much that she couldn't wait to come back. She wanted to bring her friends so they could admire the cool story too.
Once upon a time, there was a young man named Tony. Tony wanted to find the right girl to marry. So, one day he went to a party and met a young lady named June. They started to talk and soon became friends.

After the picnic, Tim thanked the family and said, "I had fun, thank you!" Then, Tim soared high in the sky again, feeling full and happy. The family waved goodbye and continued to play in the park.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Tim. Tim had a messy room. He had toys, clothes, and junk all over the floor. One day, his mom told him, "Tim, you must clean your room."

Then the clumsy painter and his friend got to work. They used lots of colorful paints, and worked until the picture was complete.

Tim and Sue were playing in the living room when Sue started to get thirsty. Tim remembered that there was juice in the fridge. He went to the kitchen and got a cup of juice for Sue. Sue was very happy and said, "Thank you, Tim!"

Later that day, Lily's mom told her they were going to the park to play. Lily was excited, but she felt a little fearful because she had lost her favorite toy at the park before. When they got there, Lily searched and searched for her toy, but she couldn't find it.

Finally, Lily found the poem under a big tree. She was so happy! She hugged the poem and promised to protect it forever. From that day on, Lily learned that it is important to take care of the things we love.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Tim. He was a nervous boy who loved to draw. One day, he found a big bottle of ink in his room. Tim was very happy.

"Sure!" said Timmy. "Let's wrap it up in this blanket so we can pretend it's a secret weapon." 

Her mother smiled and said, “A heart is strong. You can paint it with all the love in your heart for those you love.�

Tom shook his head and said, "No, you can't. It is mine. You have your own toys. Go away!"

Lily asked, "Can I see the dolls?" 

The friend said, "Daisy, why don't you close your eyes and bow to the sun. Then your worries will wash away."

Lily put the cup on the counter and smiled. "I like helping you, Mommy," she said.

"Yuck!" Lily said. She was scared and disgusted. She did not like bugs.

Her friends looked at her in disbelief and shouted, "No way Emma! You're crazy!" 

As they hopped through the field, Quackers noticed how smooth the grass felt on his feet. He said to Ribbit, "This field is so smooth! I like it."

One day, they go to the park with their mom. The sun is bright and warm. They see some flowers. They are yellow and pink and purple. They smell good. Sara and Ben want to pick some flowers for their mom.

The mother and father smiled and hugged the child. They all settled down for a pleasant and warm sail around the bay.
Once upon a time, there were two brothers. The brothers were always arguing with each other. One of them was tall and the other was short.

The owl said, "You win, little mouse!" The mouse was very happy. They both laughed and played more games. The owl and the mouse were best friends and always had fun together.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. Lily loved to play with her dolls and have tea parties with her stuffed animals. One day, Lily's mom told her it was time for a haircut. Lily didn't want a haircut because she loved her long hair that she could shake back and forth.

In the end the princess was able to make her sheet nice and clean. She spread the sheet back on the bed and it was fuzzy and beautiful. The princess was so happy she had cleaned it all by herself.
Once upon a time there was a big volcano. It was very tight, but it was not all happy. One day, something bad happened to it. All of a sudden, it exploded and destroyed everything in the area. Everything was torn apart and it made a really big mess.

They started to eat their cake. It was sweet and soft and good. Lily and Ben liked it a lot. But Ben wanted more. He looked at Lily's plate. Her piece was bigger than his. He felt angry.

Lily smiled and said, "Maybe one day we can both fly like birds together." 

Tom's mom said, "Tom, you can have a small piece of the cake, but you must share the rest with your friends. Sharing is good and makes everyone happy." Tom thought about it and decided to share the cake with his friends.

One day, her mom said, "Sara, it's time to put away your tablet. We have to go to the park and meet your friends."

From then on, Hannah learned the importance of helping others. She understood how proud she felt when she managed to fix the alarm and how happy her mum was. She realised that doing good deeds and helping others always brings happiness!
Molly was so happy. She loved to skip around the playground. She skipped to the sandpit and picked up a handful of oats. After she picked them up, she smiled.

One day, they saw a big pile of leaves near the fence. Sara had an idea. She said to Ben, "Let's fill the wagon with leaves and make a big nest!" Ben nodded and smiled. They ran to the pile and started to fill the wagon with leaves. They used their hands and a rake. They filled the wagon until it was very full.

Anna was having so much fun that she didn't want to stop. But soon, she got tired and had to rest. She looked back and smiled. Fireplace was beautiful. Anna had made it all with her little snaps. She was proud and ready for more adventures.
Jack loved to play with his blocks. He had a big pile of them and he was so excited to build things. Every day, he would gather the blocks and create something new.

Her friends wanted to try the umbrella too. So the girl shared it with them, and they all had fun spinning around with the umbrella. They were all laughing and having a great time.

Emily asked, "What is a rug?"

Emma had a crazy idea. She said to her friends, "Let's wash the symbol in the pond!" 

Her mommy looked in and said, "It looks wonderful Jessie. What do you want to share?"

One day, they find a big box. It has many numbers on it. Tom says, "What is this?" Ann says, "I don't know. Let's open it." They open the box. They see many blocks. But the blocks are different. They have numbers on them, too.

Jenny ran to the hidden thing. It was a quick squirrel, who was scurrying around trying to collect as many nuts as possible.

"Wow, it is pretty!" Tom says. He wants to see the bird better. He gets off the bench and walks to the bird.

<INSTRUCTION> What Anna and Bella do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Anna and Bella laughed, knowing that the table in the garden was a very special place. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Molly was unsure but she was ready to find out more. She asked the woman again: "How do I get wisdom?" The woman said: "The only way to get wisdom is to tear away the things that make it difficult to find it."

Lily and Max stopped. They saw that Grandma was angry. They felt sorry.

He lay there, looking up at the stars and the moon. He was so relaxed, he dozed off and went to sleep. 

Tom did not want to call Mom and Dad. He wanted to be a hero. He ran towards the dog with his stick. "Come on, Lily, follow me. We can do it!"

"What are you doing in my car? You could have caused an accident!" he yells.

Her mommy looked at the mushroom and said, "That's a very interesting mushroom, Lily. But we can't eat it because we don't know if it's safe." 

Mum warned him again, but Jack didn't listen. He started to run towards the taxi. When he got there, he asked the driver if he could get in. The driver, who knew Jack was being naughty, said he wouldn't recommend it.

The end.
Once upon a time there was a dependable little flower called Daisy. Every morning Daisy would bloom with beauty and color to bring joy to the vendor in the market. The vendor was very pleased with Daisy's beauty and dependability.

Mama came to the door and hugged them. "Don't worry, my loves, it's just a storm. It will pass soon. Come inside and we'll have some cookies and milk."

The next day, Timmy went back to the park to look for his cap. But it was gone forever. Timmy was so sad and couldn't stop crying. He missed his cap and felt powerless without it. The end.
Once upon a time, there was a girl named Lily. Lily loved to play at the park with her friends. She would run, jump, and swing on the swings. One day, Lily's friend Timmy started coughing and couldn't breathe well. Lily's mom, who was a nurse, knew that Timmy's lungs were not regular and he needed help. She called an ambulance and Timmy went to the hospital. After a few days, Timmy felt better and could swing again with Lily. They were happy to play together once more.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl who loved to play the piano. She had a little piano at home and she practiced every day. But she didn't like to listen to her mommy and daddy when they told her to practice more. She thought she was already good enough.

The man smiled back and went back to touching his anchor. He felt comforted knowing he had a special anchor he could always touch.
George was so excited. Today was the day of the Lively Clown show! He had waited all week and now it was almost time. Getting ready, George went to the bathroom and wiped his face. He made sure he looked his best so he could meet the Lively Clown.

The aunt looked around and saw her niece. She said, "What have you done?"

She was happily walking, when suddenly a big white bird flew down and perched on a branch in front of her. The bird said to her, "Would you like to come with me? I know a nice place."

When they arrived, she looked around with wide eyes. Everything was so big and new! She saw so many things her little mind just couldn’t believe. Every time she blinked, something new was there.

"Yes, Ben, that would be fun. But for now, let's play with our toy vehicles. They are fun too. And we have each other." Lily said.

They cheered and ran outside. They hugged mom and thanked her for keeping them safe. They played with their ball and their bikes again. They were happy the hurricane was gone.
Sara and Tom are playing with cardboard boxes in the living room. They like to make forts and tunnels with the boxes. They also like to hide from each other and say "boo!".

After her examination, Leticia went back inside and told her parents all that she had seen. She was very brave and her parents were proud.
Once upon a time, there was a mighty mouse. It was always so clever and brave. One day, it was playing in the garden when it saw a big bucket of paint. It wanted to have fun and paint the garden, but it knew it mustn't. The mouse ran away to prevent the paint from spilling.

Sam crawled in the hole. Ben followed him. They crawled deeper and deeper. It was dark and cold. They could not see anything.

But Kate did not hear her. She did not care. She just kept sliding and laughing. She did not give back the sled or the gloves. She was very mean and selfish.

<INSTRUCTION> What were the two sisters doing? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> The two sisters were having so much fun until they heard a loud noise. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Mom looked at the tree and the chimney and smiled.

"Yes, we love the park. It is our favorite place to play. Thank you for cleaning it," Sam says.

Her mommy smiled. "Let's. What do you want to do?"

From then on, Jane was never bored. She had many smooth toys to play with and it kept her happy for hours on end.
Sharon was walking in the park when she heard a loud scream. She was frightened and stopped in her tracks. She could tell the scream had come from the pond nearby. Sharon walked closer and saw a little girl playing in the water with a bottle.

Lily smiled and said, "Thank you, doctor. I'm glad my arm is not broken." Mom hugged her and said, "I'm so proud of you, Lily. You were very brave. Let's go home and have some ice cream." Lily said, "Yes, let's go home. I love you, Mom." They left the doctor's office and went to the car. Lily felt peaceful and happy. She had a good day after all.
Anna and Ben like to play with paper. They can make many things with paper. They can fold paper into hats, boats, planes and animals. They have a big box of paper in different colors and shapes.

"Hello, sir. My name is Sara and this is my mom. We like your apples. Can we have one, please?" Sara said.

The child was laughing and smiling. Soon, the child felt very tired and fell asleep in mum's arms.

Sara nodded. She did not understand why her mom was not happy.

Lily's mom hugged Lily and said, "I know, Lily. Sometimes things die and we can't do anything about it. It's okay to be sad. But it's also okay to be happy. Because you have a lot of things and people that love you. Like me. And dad. And your toys. And the cushion. And the sun. And the moon. And the stars. And many more. Can you say thank you to them, too?" Lily smiled and said, "Yes, mom. Thank you, mom. Thank you, dad. Thank you, toys. Thank you, cushion. Thank you, sun. Thank you, moon. Thank you, stars. Thank you, thank you, thank you."
Ben and Lily were friends who liked to play together. They had different skin colors: Ben's skin was brown and Lily's skin was white. They did not care about that. They cared about having fun.

The team decided to try and figure out what the object was. They worked together to push and pull it, but it wouldn't budge. 

Alice started to cry. She said, "Jimmy, why did you do that?!"

"Okay!" Lily said. "But we have to share the microphone, okay?"

The little birdie was very happy to be rescued by its parent. It chirped and sang a happy song. From then on, it knew that its parent would always be there to help and protect it.
Once upon a time, there was a boy named Jack who loved to play on the beach. He would build sandcastles and collect shells. One day, he saw a big wave coming towards him. The wave was so high that it scared Jack. He ran away from the water and waited for the tide to go back.

But the mother said "Let's do it! We can buy two trees and still help those in need. It will be a generous gift from our family".


The little girl left with a new haircut and the barber felt happy. He liked giving people haircuts and making them look different. He thought it was the best job ever.
Once there was a boy. He didn't know what a pit was, but he soon found out. One day, he and his mom were in the park. He saw a big, round, empty pit. It was very strange and he was curious. He asked his mom, "What is that?" She said, "That's a pit, my love. It's so deep and empty." 

They start to fight over the blue mittens. They pull and tug and shout. They fall on the snow. The blue mittens fly out of their hands. They land on a snowman's head.

Papa looked up from the boat and said, "We are restoring the boat, Maple. We need to make it look new again."

Honey said to the butterfly, "Will you stay and play with me?" The butterfly said "Yes, I will stay and play for a while."

One day, Jane was running so fast, she didn't see the small hole in the grass and she tripped and fell. Jane scraped her shoulder and it hurt a lot!

"There, we're done," said the man. "Now the swing has a new seat and a strong chain. Do you want to try it?"

One day, the tutor brought a book about animals that lived in the jungle. Lily was very excited and wanted to see all the pictures. She saw lions, monkeys, elephants, and snakes. She asked the tutor many questions about the animals, and the tutor answered them all.

Lily was surprised and happy. She said thank you and took the iron. She said she was sorry too and asked if he wanted to play with the truck. She said they could take turns. Tom nodded and smiled. He took the truck and rolled it on the carpet. He made a vroom-vroom sound and laughed.

Sara and Tom look at each other. They do not have money. They are sad. They say, "No, we do not have money. We are sorry."

His mom smiled and said, “That’s a clock. It tells us what time it is. See, it's twelve o'clock.�

"Oh, no!" Mommy said. "What happened here? Who used the magic pen?"

She walked up to the tunnel and said "Let's fix it together!"

Mum and Dad laughed, then Dad said, "Let's find out if it can joke too!"

Lily liked the museum, but Ben was bored. He wanted to play and run. He saw a big red button on the wall. It said "Do not push". Ben did not know what that meant. He thought it was a game. He pushed the button.

When she got there, she saw a musician playing his trumpet and singing. He was so loud, that he was shouting the words he was singing. Fluffy was so happy to hear the music, that she started to dance around and bark!

When Lucy asked her mom if she could take part in the parade, her mom said, "No, it's too expensive. We can't afford it."

One day, Fluffy saw a little boy named Tim. Tim was sad because he lost his ball. Fluffy wanted to help Tim. So, Fluffy looked for the ball in the yard.

They walked back down the stairs. On the way, Mommy said, "Let's go get some food now. I'm sure you must be hungry after all that examining!" 

Mary put on her shoes, said goodbye to her mum and off she went. Mary saw lots of colourful things in the shop, but she remembered why she was there. She quickly found the glue and asked the shopkeeper for some. He gave it to her with a big smile and she thanked him, saying she was grateful for his help.

As he was finishing the snowman, he saw his friend, Sally, walking by. "Hi, Sally! Look at my snowman! Isn't he cool?" Timmy said. "Wow, Timmy! He's really neat! But be careful, the ground is icy and you might slip and fall," Sally replied. 

They guess that Sam learned a lesson. They guess that he learned that being the best is not important. They guess that he learned that being kind and friendly is important. They guess that he learned that hockey is a game for everyone.
Tom and Mia were friends. They liked to play outside. One day, they went to the lake with their moms. The lake was big and blue. They saw ducks and fish in the water.

When Elsie arrived at the theater, she saw a pale, shimmery stage and lots of comfy plush chairs. She desperately wanted to go on the stage, but her mum urged her to stay put.

Lily felt jealous. She liked her train, but she thought the boy's train was better. She wanted to play with it.

"Sure, you can come out. But stay away from the ladder and the wire. They can be dangerous." the driver said.

The cat was surprised and asked the mouse, "Why did you help me?" 

"Maybe we can trick it," Rani said. "Look, there is a carrot on the ground. We can use it as bait."

The girl was so proud of her swimming skills. Swimming always made her happy. She knew that she wanted to swim again soon!
Max loved football. He saw the other children all playing, so he wanted to join in. He asked his mum and dad for a football, but they said his football was too wide! Max felt sad, he wanted a football to play with. So his dad went to the shop and bought a smaller football that would be easier for him to play with.

The next day, Flora made sure to find some time to wash her toys. She felt very happy once she had washed all the dirt away. Mum was very pleased when Flora showed her the clean toys. And Flora was no longer guilty!
Jill and Jack were playing outside in their backyard when they heard a loud thunder. Scared of the noise Jill started to cry. Jack looked up into the sky and saw tiny white fluffy clouds. He knew they were only having a mild storm. 

Mandy hopped off her bike and walked into the pizza shop. She asked for a large pizza with pepperoni and cheese. The shop keeper gave her a big, pink pizza. She couldn't believe it!

After they finished eating, Timmy's mom gave him a present. He was so excited to open it! Inside, there was a toy car that he had been wanting for a long time. He was so happy that he started to jump up and down. Suddenly, he heard a crack. Oh no! He had accidentally broken his new toy car. But his mom told him not to worry, they could fix it together. And so, they did. Timmy's birthday was the best day ever!
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to take naps in her cozy bed every day. One afternoon, while she was taking her nap, she dreamed about her favorite toy, a teddy bear named Brownie. She was so eager to play with him when she woke up.

When they reached the store, everyone went inside. Mommy and Daddy looked at the groceries and Baby followed obediently. 

"Hello, bird!" said the bug. But the bird did not talk back. The bug tried again, "Why don't you talk to me?" Still, the bird did not say anything. The bug was sad and started to walk away.

Mommy said, "We can't jump today. Let's go for a jog around the park instead!" Amy was surprise, but liked the idea. Together, they jogged around the park. It was so much fun! 

But then, something special happened. The bear found a big round rock. He stood on it and tried to balance. Suddenly, he was spinning high in the air. Around and around he went and it was so much fun! 

When they got home, Lily's mom turned on the TV for a little while. But Lily didn't want to watch it anymore. She said, "Mom, let's play a game together." They played a game and had fun. Lily realized that playing outside and spending time with her mom was much better than watching TV all day. She felt modest about her behavior before and was happy to have a new way to spend her time.
Once upon a time, there was a chubby bunny. The bunny liked to eat carrots and lettuce. One day, the bunny found a sword in the forest. The bunny thought the sword was shiny and pretty. The bunny picked up the sword and brought it back to its burrow. The bunny tried to eat the sword, but it was too hard. The bunny decided to keep the sword as a treasure instead. The end.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily who loved birds. She would watch them fly in the sky and sing sweet songs. One day, she decided to make some bird food so they would come closer to her house. 

"Would you like some milk and cookies?" she asks.

"Me too. It is a modern city. Maybe we can go there someday," Lily says.

They sit on the grass and start to draw. Sara makes a big circle and some petals. Ben makes a box and some wheels.

Jack and Rory kept brushing their hair until it was perfect. They were both proud of themselves. They both had learned something new!
Once upon a time, there was a little bird who lived in the cold, snowy forest. The bird was not like the other birds. He had a special song that he sang. Every day he would use his beautiful voice and sing his song.

Lily and Ben agree. They love their mom and their music. They forget about the lion and the huge tree. They are very happy.
Tom and Anna were twins who liked to play in the living room. They saw a big tree with shiny things on it. Mommy said the shiny things were ornaments and they were very pretty. She also said they were very fragile and they should not touch them.

One day, Josh saw a brown rabbit. He wanted to follow the rabbit and see where it went. So he slowly walked after the rabbit, being careful not to scare it away. The rabbit hopped away until it came to a burrow in the ground.

"Let go of me!" the big boy yelled. "You're mean!"

The rain started to pitter-patter on the ground. The trees were dripping with water. All the people outside ran for cover.

“Mum, look!� Jack shouted. He wanted to go over and meet the shy little rabbit. 

Mom came and saw Tom. She saw the herb and the berry. She knew what they were. They were poison. She was very angry and very worried. She took Tom to the car and drove to the hospital.

Tom and Lily went to the toy store. There were many toys to choose from. There were dolls, cars, and even a big teddy bear! Tom said, "Why don't you choose the teddy bear? It's soft and cuddly." Lily smiled and said, "Yes, I like the teddy bear! Thank you, old cop Tom!"

Then, Lily saw something very bright and fast in the sky. It was a star that moved across the sky like a bird. Lily pointed and said, "Look, dad, a shooting star!" Her dad smiled and said, "That's right, Lily, a shooting star. Do you know what you can do when you see a shooting star?"

Sue smiled and said, "Thank you, Tim! You are very kind." They both used the big, red pencil to draw and write. They became very good friends. Tim was happy that he shared his pencil with Sue.

That made Cindy feel much better. She looked forward to the movie, and sure enough, it was full of roars - both funny and scary! But Cindy stayed brave the whole time and even laughed at the monster's roars. When the movie ended, she said, "That was fun!"
Once there was a famous kite that liked to speak with the birds in the sky. Every day it would fly around and talk with them about the clouds and the wind. One day, a little girl spotted the kite and decided to fly it. She ran to the park with it under her arm and couldn't wait to get it in the air.

Jack eagerly accepted the suggestion and, with a big smile on his face, he took the stick and began to show off his moves. He quickly gained control of the stick and began to juggle it around his body like a professional hockey player.

One day she went to the park. There were lots of trees and the grass was green. She saw something interesting on the ground. She bent down and saw it was a brown prize. She was so excited! She had found it all by herself.

The little boy was very sad, but he was also very brave. He wanted to go with his dad. Then he had an idea. He asked his dad to take him in the motor. The dad said no again.

The mole went out of his hole. He saw a big tree. Under the tree, there was a ball. The mole wanted to play with the ball. He pushed the ball with his nose. The ball went far away.

"Let's play," the girl said. "You pinch the coins and let them slide down the slide!"

The girl stopped. "Why do you want me to come here?" she asked.

He picked it up and ran to his mom. “Look what I found!� he said, raising the lollipop up in the air. 

Sam smiled and said, "An apple!"

The snake smiled and said, "I'm just exploring. I wanted to see what the smells were like in the forest." 

John was so happy to hear that and immediately tasted the cake. It was delicious! He thanked Jane and they both shared the cake and laughed together. 

Ben and Sam smiled. They were proud and happy. They thanked the bald man. They climbed down the ladder. They ran to the cabin. They told their dad what they did. Their dad hugged them and praised them. He gave them some cookies and milk. They ate the cookies and drank the milk. They went back to the cabin. They played with the toys and books. They had more fun.
Tom and Mia are friends. They like to play with toys. One day, Tom brings a new toy to Mia's house. It is a magnet. A magnet can stick to some things, like metal.

Then, a kind witch came and said she could save the queen. The witch gave the king a potion to give to the queen. The queen drank the potion and got better! The king was so happy and thanked the witch. 

Lily learned that some things can hurt you like fire can burn you, some rules are important like the law about seatbelts, and it's not nice to be selfish and not share with others.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Timmy. Timmy loved animals and he especially loved goats. One day, he asked his mom if they could go to the park to see the goats. His mom said yes and they went to the park.

Tom was sad, but his mum said, “It was a good journey, and the best things in life are worth the wait. You can save up and take the train again soon.� Tom smiled and said, “I will!�

One day, they have a big test at school. The test is about numbers. Anna and Ben are scared of the test. They do not know the numbers well. They panic.

He said to Sarah, “There is something very special about you, Sarah. You may be poor, but your smile is more valuable than any riches in the world.�

One day, a gentle breeze blew through the sky and scattered the lady's coins all over the ground. The old lady was very surprised and, using her wisdom, she quickly jumped out of her tree. 

The little girl was so curious she had to find out what was happening. She put her tiny hands together and wished really hard, and suddenly she was standing inside the sky! 

Clara smiled and nodded. The two of them started hopping and twirling around in the sky. Clara had never seen anything so cheerful in her life. Everyone in the village watched with smiles on their faces and clapped as they danced.

Lily was very excited. She bought the magic cone and said, "Grow!" The cone grew bigger and bigger, just like the shopkeeper said. Lily shared her big ice cream with her friends. They all laughed and enjoyed the sweet treat together.

One day, the kitty was playing in the park when it saw its special brush with a rabbit. The kitty asked the rabbit if he could lend the brush. 

The dog licked Tom and Lily and wagged its tail. Tom and Lily hugged the dog and thanked it.

Lilly felt much better but she was still scared of the nightmare. So she decided to take matters into her own hands. She ran to her dad and said, "Let's make a nightmare catcher!� 

After a while, everyone was able to ride the new bike with pedals. Lily was happy that she introduced her friends to her new bike and they all had fun riding together.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to draw and always carried a pencil with her. One day, she went to a show where people sang and danced. When it was over, everyone clapped and Lily learned a new word - "applaud". She clapped too and felt happy.

So Papa and Maple worked together to restore the boat. They cleaned it, painted it and even placed a rainbow flag at the top! When they were finished, they looked at the little yellow boat with pride.

They played for a long time until they heard a voice outside.

"Hey, stop!" Lily and Ben shouted. "That is our treasure!"

The bear thought for a moment. "Would you like to live in my big cabin?" he asked.

They took off their clothes and jumped into the bathtub. They splashed and giggled and made fish faces. They had so much fun that they did not hear their mom calling them for dinner. They did not see the dark clouds in the sky. They did not notice the water getting colder and colder.

Suddenly, one of the other animals at the park, Fox, joined in. She said, "May I come too?" She was very friendly and seemed nice. Birdie and Bear said yes and they all started to dance around the park. They were having so much fun! 

"I'm looking at myself in the mirror. I like my small nose and my pretty dress," Lily said.

As soon as he got on the bus, he sneezed. All the other people on the bus looked at him. The boy was scared.

Tom agreed and opened the jar. He gently placed the beetle on a leaf and said, "Bye, beetle. I am sorry I made you sad. You are adorable and I hope you have a good day."

John wanted to share the lemon with his family and he ran inside to show them. Inside, he found his mom and dad. He offered his lemon to them with a big smile. They both laughed, but felt excited about what John had done. It was not normal for a three-year-old child to find a lemon in someone's backyard. 

The little fish was so excited that he swam as fast as he could to come with the bee. When he came to the top of the water, he saw a world that was so much bigger than his pond! There were trees, and clouds and even other fish!

Later that day, Lily went to play with her friends. She saw her friend, Timmy, who was feeling sad. Lily asked him, "What's wrong, Timmy?" Timmy said, "I lost my toy." Lily said, "Don't worry, I will help you find it." They searched and searched until they found the toy. Timmy was so happy and he laughed and said, "Thank you, Lily. You are a good friend."
Once upon a time, there was a dog named Spot. Spot loved to go for walks with his owner. One day, Spot and his owner went to the park. Spot saw a big tree and ran over to it. He shook his body and a bunch of leaves fell on him. 

Sara's mom hugs them. She says she is glad they are sorry and honest. She says she will try to fix the toy. She says they can play with it together when it is fixed. She says they have to learn to share and be kind.

Mrs. Brown sat down on a bench and watched Bobby curiously. He seemed so interested in the chimney that she decided to ask the park keeper about it.

Timmy's friends were surprised but they listened to Timmy. They waited until Timmy's dad came home and helped them get the ball back. Timmy learned that sometimes it's important to follow the rules even if it means waiting a little longer.
Once upon a time, there was a boy named Timmy. Timmy had a dull card that he loved to play with. One day, Timmy went to his friend's house to show him his card. His friend said, "Wow, that card is so cool! Can I see it?" 

Finally it was the time to go. Brian put the key back in the bush, said goodbye to the magical creatures and put on his shoes. He left the secret garden, feeling happy and full of joy.
Once upon a time there was a little girl called Lola. She was very curious about the world around her. One day, her mum and dad decided to get a tutor for Lola so she could learn about different things. 

On his way, Sam heard a noise coming from the trees. When he looked between the branches he saw an amazing sight. A group of frogs were jumping from stone to stone in the creek.

Timmy tore off the wrapping paper and opened the box. Inside, he found a set of building blocks. He was so excited to build even more towers now. "Thank you, Mom!" he exclaimed.

"Mommy, this is fun!" she said, as she swung back and forth.

He ran around the small home, exploring every corner. Eventually he found his bed and snuggled in for a nap. Ted was happy to be home.
One day, a little boy was walking carelessly through the park. He loved exploring and discovering interesting things. Suddenly, he came across a big, beautiful pass. He picked it up and ran to the nearest shop to receive a treat.

Tom and Mia hug and say they are sorry and thank you. They decide to make a new picture together, using their normal crayons. They draw a fire truck and a fireman and a fire dog. They write "Fire is not a toy" on the bottom. They show their picture to their parents and tell them what they learned. Their parents are proud of them and give them a tasty treat. They eat the treat and smile. They are happy to be friends and to create things together.
Tom and Lily were twins who liked to travel with their mom and dad. They went to many places and saw many things. They liked to learn new words and make new friends.

When she opened the dictionary again, Lily noticed that it was still a bit boring. But she was determined to keep reading. This time, she read much slower and tried to take in all the words.

The girl smiled even wider. She raised her hands and let out a loud clap. The voice said “Well done! Now, can you do it even louder?� 

But Tom, her brother, did not like her game. He wanted to play with his cars. He saw Lila's doll and said, "That is not a princess. That is a silly doll. Give it to me." He grabbed the doll from Lila and threw it on the floor.

But after a while they all had to surrender. The heavy raft was starting to drift away and they could not get back on it. The waves were too high and the family were too exhausted. 

The little boy was so happy that he now belonged at the mill. He was proud to call the mill his home. He continued to help the people at the mill for many years, and everyone was thankful for all his hard work. The mill was organized better than ever before and the little boy finally had a place to belong.
One day, a little girl was running fast through the park. Her feet felt light and she had a big smile on her face. Suddenly, she tripped and dropped to the ground. Her knee started to hurt. She started crying, but her mom was nearby. She gave her a big hug, and then she helped her up again.

"I don't know," Mia said. "It looks dark and scary. What if there are monsters or bats?"

The witch was very happy, and had enough potion spray left for everyone to enjoy. She made it available for everyone to use, so that she could make rainbows in the sky even more often!
Jack and his mom were walking in the park when they saw an unknown bow lying on the ground. Jack loved bows, so he asked his mom if he could keep it. But his mom said no. She said it was dangerous because they didn't know who it belonged to. 

Vito said, "Because I'm so stubborn, that's why!"

Lila and Tom told them about their game and their spoons. Their parents looked at them and said, "That's a silly game, Lila and Tom. It doesn't matter who can balance a spoon on their nose. It's just a spoon. It's not important. What's important is that you are kind and respectful to each other. You are twins and you are wealthy. You have many toys and many spoons. But the most valuable thing you have is each other. You should share and play nicely. You should apologize and hug each other. You should be happy and grateful."

Lila did not answer. She looked down and felt sorry.

The next day, Emma looked through all the pictures she had taken the day before. She was so proud of the pictures she had captured and could not believe she had taken them herself. Emma knew that she had a special gift - she could record all the beautiful things in life!
Once upon a time, there was a wild smelly bear who liked to explore. He would travel for many days, sometimes even weeks, before he returned to his cozy cave in the forest. 

Tom sees Lily from behind the tree. He thinks she is very close. He holds his breath and tries to be calm. He hopes she won't see him.

One day, Jack said to Jill, "I wish we could speak in a different language. That would be so much fun!"

The police found what they were looking for and left. Everyone was relieved and hugged their puppy. They all thanked God for keeping them safe.

One day, the little boy saw a crab. He wanted to catch it, but his mom urged him to be careful. She said the crab might pinch him. The little boy was alert and listened to his mom.

"Yes, mom, we are okay," Lily and Ben say. "Thank you for saving us!"

"Maybe, if you work hard and learn a lot. But for now, let's go back to sleep. The rocket will be gone soon. It's very distant and fast," her mom said.

Suddenly it heard a voice from down below. 
"Haha!" Someone laughed, "that's my fire! I burnt it bigger and stronger, so the ash would fly!" 

The prince practiced with his sword every day. Everyone was amazed how fast he was learning and how good he was getting.

One day, while she was sad and alone, a kind bear came to her home. He wanted to help the panda, and said that he would protect her and keep her safe. He spent all of his time playing with her and helping her feel better.

"It means it's colder than zero," Lily said. She was very smart and organized. She liked to learn new things. "Zero is when water freezes and becomes ice. Minus means less than zero. So minus five is very, very cold."

Tom said to the butterfly, "Hi butterfly! I want to dive too!" The butterfly smiled and said, "That is a very good idea! But you must be careful."

Sarah was happy. "We can come back and check to see if the rat is still here," she suggested.

After a few hours, the wardrobe was finished. Lily's mommy said, "Wow, Lily! You are such a good builder!" Lily smiled and said, "Thank you, mommy. I love building things with you."
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Timmy. Timmy loved to play with his toys and watch cartoons on TV. One night, Timmy went to bed but he couldn't sleep because he was scared of monsters. He thought there was a monster under his bed.

So, Amy and Tom started to look for more dry leaves. They found many leaves and made a big pile. They played in the leaves and had lots of fun. But then, the sky became dark and it started to rain. The rain made the leaves wet and not fun to play in anymore.

After he finished sneezing, he went back to his task of picking grapes. He grabbed a grape and it felt bad. He shook it, but it was still bad. He put it back on the bush and grabbed another grape. Yay, this one was juicy and sweet! He happily munched on it and forgot about the bad grape. 

He worked very hard and eventually finished the ship. But before he could show it to the other one, a big storm hit and destroyed the ship. The jealous one was very sad and could not believe it.

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan wanted to do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Joan still wanted to play. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

The next day, Lily saw a real butterfly in her garden. She was so happy and tried to catch it again. But this time, she was careful and didn't scare it away. She watched the butterfly fly around and then land on a flower. Lily realized that not everything has a happy ending, but sometimes things end in a good way.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to play outside and collect pretty rocks. One day, she found a shiny gem that was very special. She didn't know what it was, but she knew it was important.

Tim feels very bad. He wishes he did not take the car. He wishes he did not break the window. He wishes he did not make Sam and Mom mad. He knows he will not play with cars and trucks for a long time. He has a bad ending.
Tom and Lily are playing in the park. They like to slide, swing and run. They see a big bin with many things inside. They are curious.

"What can I do, mommy?"

<INSTRUCTION> What Anna and Bella do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Anna and Bella laughed, knowing that the table in the garden was a very special place. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

As they were walking, Timmy saw something shiny on the ground. It was a medal! Timmy picked it up and showed it to his friends. They all thought it was cool.

"That's not fire, that's just red. Fire is hot and bright and dangerous. You can't make fire with a stone," Lila says, drawing a flower with a green crayon.

So Daddy thought of something useful. He suggested making tuna sandwiches! That way the tuna would be more fun and tasty. Mommy agreed and together they made the sandwiches.

At the end of the adventure, her mum arrived safely home with lots of stories to tell. She gave Zoe a very special present: a world map. Together, they pointed to all the places her mum had been. As they chattered away, Zoe felt proud of her mum and all the supplies she had sent across the world.
Once upon a time there was a lucky horn. The horn was very shiny and colourful. One day a little boy named Jack stumbled across the horn. He picked it up and blew it. As he blew the horn, he wished for luck.

"I can't get this apple in the hole to feed my family," said Bob. Sam thought for a moment and said, "Let's break the apple into smaller pieces."

So, Jake and Sammy rushed to the kitchen. Jake said, "Let's get the food!" They were both so excited.

Mia smiled. She was so glad that her big brother was there to help. The other little girl apologized to her and together they had a great time pushing their carts and playing. Mia was so happy that she had an organized cart and a big brother to look after her.
A little girl named Chloe was walking through the park. She saw something she had never seen before: a tall, purple ladder! Chloe was so excited. She walked up to the ladder and asked her mom, "Can I try it?" Her mom said, "Yes, just be careful."

"Let's go to the attic," Ben said. "Maybe we can find something fun there."

"Good job, Lily! Now, can you leave the cup on the counter?" her mom asked.

So Jack dipped the rag into the water and started wiping the blocks. He worked very carefully and soon his blocks were all clean and shiny. His mom was so happy and proud, and gave him a hug. 

One day Emily was worried about something when she heard a loud noise outside her window. She saw a big monkey and it was trying to open the window.

They run after the truck with the flour. They hope to see the baker and maybe get a treat. They are happy and curious. They like to follow and learn.
Tom and Sam are friends. They like to play with cars. They have many cars of different colors and sizes. They pretend that the cars are racing on the road.

At the end of the holiday, Molly was very happy. She had had a lot of fun, and that made her smile. Her mum and dad smiled too, and they all enjoyed the calm and peaceful atmosphere.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy. He was 3 years old, and he was always full of wonder. He was a very curious boy who loved to explore the world around him.

They examined the collar together, and Daisy noticed that it was a very special collar. But before they could figure out where it came from, Daisy's mum quickly put it in her pocket and said, "We'll take it home with us, Daisy".

Maddy watched as her mom put the cereal in the cart. She shared a big smile with her mom, who smiled back.

Lily didn't want to share her toy. "No, it's mine," she said.

Just then, a kind man walked by and saw Lily's problem. He climbed the tree and popped the bubble with a stick. Lily was so grateful and thanked the man with a big hug. 

<INSTRUCTION> What di Joan's mother say to her? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Her mother said, Joan, you must take a nap and prevent getting too hot. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

One day, she went outside to play. But she was so busy running and jumping, she forgot to keep her fork in the safe place. While she was gone, the wind blew it away.

"Well done, Chirpie," they said in unison.

He grabbed the crayons, and then ran to the living room. He found a big piece of paper and started to draw. He drew a big yellow sun in the sky and a big green tree with leaves. The boy was so happy with his creation that he jumped up and down with excitement.

"Yeah, Ben, don't be sad. We still like you and your sign. It is very nice. You can display it again when you make better lemonade." Sam said, pointing at the sign.

"You're a natural," her Mom said. "I'm so proud of you!"

One day, Lily was playing with Max in the yard. Max barked and ran away. Lily didn't understand where he went. She looked around and called, "Max, where are you?" Max barked again, and Lily found him near the big tree.

"I don't know. Maybe he's stuck under the water," Ben said, worried too.

They reached the top and saw the whole world. Lily felt happy, proud, and amazed. She learned how to climb a mountain. She hugged her dad and thanked him. He hugged her back and said he was proud of her. They learned that they could do anything if they were brave and careful.
Mira and Ravi are twins. They like to play with toys and books. But they do not like to share. Sometimes they fight and slap each other.

The fat lady was thrilled and said yes. So, Ben and the fat lady went for a ride on his blue bicycle. They had a great time and laughed a lot along the way.
One day, Papa took Sally outside to play on the swings. Sally loved swinging high in the wind. She was swinging and smiling, but suddenly she got confused. 

"No, Sarah," her mom said. "It's too much candy. You can have something else."

"Yes, I'm okay," said Lily with a smile. 

"Look, Lily, I found a pen!" Tom said, holding a blue pen he saw on the floor. "I can draw on the wall!"

Ben likes the idea. He and Anna take the yacht to the slide. They put it on the top and push it down. The yacht slides down fast and makes a noise.

Mom hears them and comes outside. She sees Spot and the mess. She is angry. She yells at Spot and chases him away. She hugs Anna and Ben and comforts them.

"Thank you, mommy," Sam says. He feels better.

Flopsy asked, "What is it, Tilly?"

At last, the pancakes were ready. Jen's dad sprinkles some more pepper onto the pancakes. Jen had never seen pepper on pancakes before, but it smelled delicious!

Lily was so excited to open the box. She tore the paper and saw a new doll inside. She hugged the doll and said, "Thank you, Mom!" Then she saw Brownie and said, "Brownie, look! I have a new friend!" Brownie was happy too.

One day a great storm came and brought a lot of rain and floods to the kingdom. The people were very scared and many houses were damaged.

Jack's friends stopped and watched in amazement. The dog too was surprised, he had been expecting to scare Jack away too.

<INSTRUCTION> What di Joan's mother say to her? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Her mother said, Joan, you must take a nap and prevent getting too hot. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

"Ow!" Tom cried. He dropped the cricket. He was angry. He slapped the leaf where the cricket landed.

In the end, the boy had a nice haircut, and he and his mom left the barber's shop feeling happy. The unusual barber waved goodbye, and the boy knew he would come back to see him again.
One day, a little girl named Lily went to the park. She liked to play on the swings and slide. As she played, she saw a big dog. The dog was very friendly and came to say hello.

Sally was confused and asked her mother what she meant. Her mother smiled and said "Success doesn't come from how much you own, but how much you share. You can be successful and happy by helping your friends and family. That's the real way to be successful." 

Molly had so much fun playing with her new balloons. And she never forgot the special day she found them on the pink bench!
Once there was a 3 year old named John. John wanted to do something special but he didn't know what. Suddenly, he got an idea. He wanted to make something out of clay!

"A will? What is a will, Mia?" Tom asks. He is curious.

Mom thought for a moment and then said, "Let's wrap the pastry and take it outside. Maybe the wild bird will follow us." So, they carefully wrapped the pastry in a cloth.

She asked one of the birds what the kite was saying. The bird responded with a cheerful chirp, "The kite says it's happy to be here with you today! It loves its new home in the sky and wants to come back and see you again soon."

"Nothing, dad. Just reading," Lily said.

So they played in the fields all day, and Sammy forgot all about his worries. He had a great time, and knew that all was right in the world.
Once upon a time, there was a young boy called Tom. Tom liked to explore the world around him. One day, Tom was playing near a stream. He saw a delicate butterfly flying closely above the water.

Lily is scared of the scissors. She does not want to cut her hair. She thinks it will hurt. She cries and hides behind Mom. Tom is brave. He wants to cut his hair. He thinks it will make him look cool. He smiles and sits on the chair.

Emily jumped back in the water. She felt so comfortable swimming and made it back to her mother easily. 

The friends decided to make a den under the chimney, so they used some soft blankets and blankets to make it nice and comfortable. After it was all ready, they sat in the den and snuggled up, warm and snug like a bear in her den!

<INSTRUCTION> What were the two sisters doing? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> The two sisters were having so much fun until they heard a loud noise. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

The family was happy. They talked to the other car and found out it was a nice family. They said they would stay friends. So, they shook hands and the van drove away. The family in the van felt thankful that the other car was so understanding and forgiving. They decided to forgive others when they make mistakes too!
Once upon a time there was a fox. He was very restless and kept moving all night long. He wanted to take a break so he decided to lie down under a tree and take a nap.

They go inside the tent and see many animals. They see a lion, a monkey, a zebra, and a leopard. The leopard is sleeping on a big rock. He has spots on his fur.

But when she got up, she saw a stranger. The stranger was a boy. He had a blue shirt and a green cap. He was holding Anna. He had taken Anna from Lily.

Lily woke up in a hospital bed. Her house was destroyed and her family was gone. She was sad and alone. She wished she never saw the bright, shiny object in the sky.
Once upon a time, there was a little bird named Tweetie. Tweetie loved to fly high and zoom around the sky. One day, Tweetie saw a bright flower in a field and decided to land and take a rest. 

One day, the tank got bumped and the water spilled out. The little fish was very scared. He didn't know what to do. He looked around but the water was all gone.

She looked at Tom and Sue. They had tears in their eyes and blisters on their hands. They looked very sorry.

As he pedaled, Tim saw his friend, Sally. Sally was eating something. "What are you eating?" asked Tim. "I am eating a sour candy," said Sally. "Do you want to try one?" Tim nodded and took a candy from Sally.

Lily said, "Don't worry, Timmy. We can go back to your house and get it."

Lily smiled and hugged him back. She was glad he was okay. She said, "You're welcome, Ben. You are a good brother. I'm sorry you got hurt."

Mom and Dad hugged Sara and said, "Sara, we love you very much. You are a big sister and a smart girl. You can play with us and with Tom, but you have to be gentle and kind. You can examine him, but only with your eyes and your words. You can ask him questions, like how he feels, what he likes, and what he learns. You can help him grow and learn, too. That is how you show your intelligence and your love."

"Great! Let's go to the sandbox. I have some toys there," Lily said. She led them to the sandbox and they started to make sandcastles, bridges and tunnels. They had a lot of fun and shared their toys and ice-creams.

The brave explorer was gone forever, and so was the oasis, covered in a terrible fog.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Sarah. She was just 3 years old. One day, Sarah wanted to take a walk with her puppy.

He says it is okay. He says he has another cake. He says he will share some cake with them. He says they can come to the party. He says they can make new friends.

Sophie was so grateful. She took three books home. She was so happy and couldn't wait to read them. 

Suddenly, the little girl stopped and saw a beautiful flower that no one else seemed to notice. It was a very small flower growing slowly in the grass. The little girl slowly reached out to pluck the flower, but her grandma suddenly said: "No sweetheart, don't pick the flower. It takes a very long time for it to grow and if you pick it, it won't be able to grow anymore." 

So Bob had to find another way to solve his problem. He looked around but there wasn't anything else he could use. Bob was upset, but there was nothing else he could do. He hoped that the bathroom would get better soon, but it looked like he would have to wait.
Once upon a time, there was a brave prince. He loved to learn swordfighting. Every day he would go practice with his teacher.

The little girl decided that one day she would go back to observe the thermometer and find out why the rude man had been so mean. She was determined to get the answer!
Once upon a time, there was a lonely hook. He was so lonely that he used to mention his loneliness to everyone he met. One day, he was walking down a path when he heard a voice. He looked around, but he couldn't see anyone. Then, he looked up and saw a butterfly in the sky. The butterfly told him that she had seen a beach which was full of lively hooks having fun. The lonely hook was very excited to hear this and thanked the butterfly before hopping off in the direction she had mentioned.

"Mom, something is pulling the hook!" Sue said excitedly. Then, they both pulled out the black hook. On the end was a big, silver fish!

Sally's parents comforted her and explained that it was ok to make mistakes. Everyone wants to learn and the tutor was there to help her get better. They reassured her that the tutor was proud of her and that it was ok to celebrate.

His parents quickly agreed and they took the smelly dog home with them. It was a perfect fit!

They walked over to the new girl and said hello. The new girl smiled and said her name was Mia. She held her doll close to her waist.

And from then on, Lucy never forgot to ask her mom if she could explore.
Once upon a time, there was a hurricane. It was big and strong. The wind was so strong it made people feel dizzy. All the people had to stay inside so they would stay safe.

Lily thinks hard. She says, "Is it a big dog?"

<INSTRUCTION> What di Joan's mother say to her? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Her mother said, Joan, you must take a nap and prevent getting too hot. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Lily said, "I will give you a band-aid for your pain." Fluffy found a soft purple cloth to put on Timmy's knee, and Lily put the band-aid on top. Timmy stopped crying and said, "Thank you, Lily and Fluffy." They all became friends and played together happily.
Once upon a time, in a land far away, there was a big volcano. The volcano was very grumpy and would sometimes make a loud "boom" sound. People who lived near the volcano were scared and did not like the noise.

<INSTRUCTION> What Anna and Bella do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Anna and Bella laughed, knowing that the table in the garden was a very special place. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Lily was so happy. She hugged her dad and thanked him. He was very thoughtful and kind. They rode their bikes together and pretended they were in the parade. They had fun and made their own music and waved to their neighbors. Lily felt like the star of the show. She loved to ride her bike.
Lily was a little mouse who liked to follow her big brother Leo. Leo was very brave and smart, and he knew many things. He told Lily stories about the king of the forest, a big lion who was strong and kind. Lily wanted to see the king, but Leo said it was too far and too dangerous.

Her mommy was so proud, but then she got scared. She knew the girl was too young to learn about such things. So she said, "OK, let's see. What language have you learnt?"

Joe said with a big grin, "This is for you. I wanted to give you a hug that would last all season!"

The next day Sarah started studying planes and practicing flying simulations. She worked very hard and soon became very knowledgeable about planes and flying.

Jill smiled, looking at her creation. She realized that with her imagination, she could create whatever she wanted. And she didn't need magical fairies to help her.
Once upon a time there was a bald man. He was wearing a yellow hat. Every day he would go to the park and sit on the bench. One day, he saw a small yellow bird chirping near him. The man started talking to the bird. He said: “Hello, little bird. What are you doing here?� 

Jack took a deep breath and then pushed off. He slid all the way to the bottom, whooping with delight.

The bear thought for a moment, and then said, "Maybe I can help. I'll carry you! Then you'll be able to get outside." The elephant thought about it and then agreed.

One day he was getting ready to race when a little penguin spoke up.

Timmy was very excited when it was his turn to hold the flag. He ran as fast as he could, but then he tripped and fell. The flag flew out of his hand and snapped in the wind.

Tom looked around the garden. He saw a ball, a swing, a slide, and a tree. He did not see Anna. He wondered where she was. He decided to check behind the bush. He walked slowly and quietly. He saw a cup on the ground. He picked it up and smiled. He had an idea.

In the tree, the cat found a bird. The bird was scared of the large cat. The bird screamed, "Help! Help!" The cat didn't want to scare the bird, but the bird flew away.

One day, Timmy was playing outside and he found a new whip. He backed away from it, remembering what his mum had said. But he was curious and he wanted to try the whip. He picked it up and started to swing it around.

The deer looked at them with its big eyes, then nodded a silent thanks. And so the children stayed with the lovely deer and watched it rest in the morning sunshine.
Once upon a time, there were two friends who loved to play tag. One day, they were running in a big field when they noticed something shiny in the corner. It was a shiny trophy! They both ran over to it, excited to see what it was, and then both wanted to pick it up. 

When she got to the top, she saw her friend Max bouncing a ball. "Hi Max!" said Lily. "Can I play too?"

One day, Anna went to the park with her daddy. She saw a big slide and wanted to try it. She signed to her daddy, "Can I go on the slide, please?" Her daddy smiled and nodded. He signed, "Yes, you can. Be careful and have fun."

The next day, off to the park they went. They set out the treats and watched as the pigeons pecked away at the treats. Jack was thrilled to see how much the pigeons liked them!
Once upon a time, there was a curious boy named Jack. He liked to explore and learn new things. One day, he was walking in the woods when he saw something. It was a cave, and it looked very dry.

Lola and her dad followed Frosty to the top of the hill. When they got there they saw the most beautiful view of the sun setting over the snow-covered fields. Frosty said "I hope you like this view."

"Look, mom. A wild bird. It's so pretty," Mia said, pointing at the bird.

"No, Lily, the slide is too high. I don't want to go," Tom said.

Soon enough, Jenny saw something shiny. It was hidden behind a tall tree. She knew she had found the sound.

Suddenly, he heard a noise coming from behind him. He spun around to find a big, mean-looking shark! He was petrified and didn’t know what to do.

After playing for a while, Timmy and Billy got thirsty. They found a stream and drank some water. But the water was bitter and they didn't like it. So, they decided to go home and get some juice. Timmy and Billy said goodbye and promised to meet again soon. Timmy was happy he made a new friend on his adventure.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to eat fruit, especially apples. One day, her mom bought her a big bag of apples from the store. Lily was very happy and ate one right away. But she forgot to put the rest of the apples away.

She looked at the flower. She saw that she had broken one of its petals. The petal was on the ground. Lily felt sorry. She had hurt the flower.

The vine replied, "It's my very own print. I made it all by myself. I love to be independent and print things!"

Then, as the sun began to set, she heard a small voice. "I know the secret of the cave!" it said.

Mia looked at her doll and smiled. She said, "My doll seems like a princess. She has beautiful hair, a lovely dress and sparkly shoes. She is the most wonderful doll ever."

Tom felt sad and sorry. He did not mean to make Anna angry. He did not know he had ruined her exam. He learned a lesson. He learned that being nosy can cause trouble. He decided to be more careful and respectful next time. He hoped Anna would forgive him.
Sam likes to write stories. He has a big book and a blue pen. He writes about cars, planes, rockets and robots. He likes to make up amazing adventures.

The lady looked at them and frowned. She did not answer. She pulled her bag closer to her and held her dog tighter.

The bird looked at Tim and nodded its head. "Hello, Tim!" said the bird. Tim was very happy to talk to the bird. He asked, "Can you teach me your song, bird?" The bird nodded again and said, "Yes, it's easy!"

To his surprise, the owl replied, “I’m waiting. Something big is coming soon.�

The first friend nodded, and said, "Yes, let's think about what we're doing." 

Lily and Ben nod. They are very excited. They see many things they like. Lily sees a book with animals. She loves animals. She asks, "Mom, can I touch this book?" Mom says, "Yes, you can. But you have to let Ben look at it too, when he wants to." Lily says, "OK." She picks up the book and opens it. She sees a picture of a lion. She says, "Look, Ben, a lion! It is big and yellow and has a mane."

The bird watched, fascinated. When Cindy finished, it made a little chirp and flew away. Cindy watched it go, a smile on her face. She was sure the bird was very lucky to have seen her game of chess.
Once there was a little girl, and she was determined to learn how to ride her bike. She was only three, so she was really wobbly when she tried to ride it. Her mom wanted to encourage her, so she showed her how to ride safely. She showed her how to practice on her bike on the white rug in their living room. 

The girl held her mom's hand, and stepped closer and closer to the temple. She saw the shining walls and felt the dizzy feeling too. 

In the cave, Timmy found a treasure chest. He opened the chest and inside was a famous toy that he had always wanted. He was so happy! He couldn't wait to show his friends. 

Timmy was amazed and asked his mom, "Is the universe fierce?" His mom thought for a moment and replied, "Well, some parts of the universe can be fierce, like black holes and supernovas."

Sally was very grateful and thanked Benny for his help. She said that she would always remember how he had lent her a carrot and helped her down the slide. From that day on, Benny and Sally became even better friends and had lots of fun adventures together.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to draw pictures with her crayons. She was very creative and made beautiful pictures of flowers, animals and her family. One day, her mom told her they needed to hurry to the gas station to get some fuel for their car. 

"Don't worry," said her mom, stroking the horse gently. "It's just because this is a new place for her. She just needs a little time to get used to it."

When they were done, Jessie hugged her mommy. She said, "I love sharing with you!"
Once there was a bird named Red. Red was a very special bird – he could soar in the sky higher than any other bird. One day, Red saw something strange happening below him. He saw a mop sliding across the ground, moving very slowly. Red was very curious, so he flew down closer to have a better look.

Sara and Ben say they love them too. They put their gems back in the box. They decide to play with them together. They are not upset anymore. They are happy.
Tommy loved to examine things. He liked to look at them, touch them, smell them, and sometimes taste them. He wanted to know everything about them. He had a big box of things he had examined in his room.

The old man nodded, and so Jack spent the rest of the afternoon with the old man, playing games, laughing and having fun. When they were done, the old man smiled, and his heart felt a little less heavy.

"Maybe one day, we'll have our own avocado tree," Lila said.

Tiny smiled and said, "Yes, let's do it!" They took turns hanging on the swing, laughing and having fun. All the other animals saw them and wanted to join too.

Timmy helped Mommy bury the shield. They put it in the hole and covered it with dirt and then patted the dirt down with their hands. 

Bob put on his crown and went outside to get ready. He was making honey in his special hive. He had some bees to help him as he was getting everything in place.

"Let's go for a walk," Sam said. "Maybe getting outside will help!"

"Mia, Mia, help me!" he cried. "A crab bit me! It hurt!"

"I fell and my knee hurts," Lily said.

Suddenly, she stopped running. She had remembered that she was supposed to be calm and peaceful like her mom had told her. She felt a little bit ashamed that she had forgotten and gone so fast.

But the teacher said, "It's not nice to be so ignorant. You could spoil everyone's appetite before lunch if you give them snacks now. Now, why don't you put the candy away?"

Mommy picked her up and carried her to the kitchen. "You need to eat something to make you feel better," she said.

One day, Lily made a sandcastle on the beach. She was very proud of it. But then, the sun got very hot and the sandcastle started to melt. Lily was sad and didn't know what to do. 

The car was still sad, but it knew it could find another mechanic to help. The car drove slowly to find a new mechanic. And finally, the car found a new mechanic who could make its wheel fit again. The car was happy and could drive fast once more. The end.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Timmy. Timmy was very tired because he had been playing outside all day. When he came inside, his mommy asked him what he wanted for a snack. Timmy thought for a moment and then said, "I choose jam on my toast, please." 

Lily trusted her mom and they went back to the park. Luckily, Teddy was still on the bench where Lily had left him. She was so happy to have him back and hugged him tightly. From that day on, Lily made sure to always keep Teddy close so she wouldn't lose him again.
Once upon a time, there was a kangaroo named Joey. Joey was a big kangaroo who liked to hop and play all day. One day, Joey got lost in the forest and he was confused. He didn't know which way to go to find his way back home.

Jack was very disturbed by this. "But Jilly," he said, "You shouldn't have taken it! That perfume could belong to somebody, and it might be very expensive!"

Max said, "I want soup!" 

Aunt: "Yes! I found you, Sam!" 

He decided to look for Fluffy and apologize. He hoped Fluffy would forgive him and play with him. He learned that being kind and sharing is better than being mean and greedy. He learned that being different is not bad. He learned that everyone needs a friend.
Lily and Tom were best friends. They liked to play with trains. Lily had a big train that made steam. Tom had a small train that did not make steam.

Tommy asked his dad, “What does this do?� His dad smiled and explained, “It picks up sound.�

After his shirt was clean, Tim ate his waffle with a big smile on his face. He was happy again and ready to start his day.
Once upon a time, there was a man who worked in a big building. He had a long stick called a staff. He would use it to help him walk and to point at things. One day, he saw a cookie on his desk. He knew he shouldn't eat it because it wasn't his. But he was very hungry, so he ate it anyway. Later, his friend asked him if he took the cookie. The man felt guilty and his eyes started to blink. He knew he did something wrong. He said sorry and promised to never take things that didn't belong to him again.
Once upon a time, a little boy named Timmy was wearing his favorite hat. He loved his hat so much because it was red and had a big white star on it. Timmy's mom told him to go outside and play. So, Timmy went outside and started to wander around in the park.

Ben says, "Sure, Sam. You can name one of my trucks. What do you want to name it?"

When he peeked behind the couch he noticed that his room was full of water. He had no idea why his room was wet and he was very scared. Jeff quickly realized that he was in trouble.

"Come on, Sara, it's time to stir the cake batter," her mom said. She smiled and held a big bowl and a wooden spoon. "You can help me make your birthday cake. What flavor do you want?"

He picked a pepper off the tree and put it in his pocket. Then he ran to the pond nearby. He saw lots of ducks swimming around and he smiled. Johnny dipped his finger in the pond and it was very, very cold - icy cold. He giggled and all the ducks started to quack. He put his hands in the icy cold water and gave the ducks a little splash.

"Why did you do that?" she asked Tom.

Suzie imagined she could go anywhere and do anything she wanted. She knew that her journey was just beginning, and she began to hope for the future.
Once upon a time, there was a lively little girl named Lily. She loved playing with her kite. Lily's kite was very special because it had brightly coloured streamers that would blow in the wind. 

"I have nothing to give you," she said sadly. She then reached down and grabbed the cardboard box.

One day, when he came to the pond an old man was already standing there with a fishing rod. 

When he got to the lake, he put the things he had collected in the boat. Then he looked around, but the boat seemed very troubled. He wanted to go on a boat ride, but he didn’t know how to make it go.

"Do you want to help me mark the rest of it?" asked Mom.

Sara cries and hugs her dolls. She is sad that the dog took her doll. She hopes that her doll is okay and that her hair is not ruined. She wishes that the dog would bring her doll back and say sorry. She wishes that her doll would be dry and happy again.
Ben likes to draw with his tutor, Miss Lee. She helps him learn new words and colors. Today, they are drawing a big farm with many animals. Ben draws a cow, a pig, a sheep and a hen. He uses brown, pink, white and red crayons.

They pulled and pulled. The bag was torn. The papers and books fell out. Some of them flew out of the door. Some of them landed on the floor. Some of them were ripped or dirty.

"Maybe it's a trap. Maybe it's a witch or a giant who wants to eat us," Max said, staying behind.

Lily looked at the shelf. There were many books of different sizes and colors. She felt a bit nervous. "That's too hard, Ben. There are too many books to count."

<INSTRUCTION> What were the two sisters doing? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> The two sisters were having so much fun until they heard a loud noise. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

But then, something amazing happened. Another big machine came to help the crane get unstuck! The workers were able to finish building the playground, and Timmy was so happy. He ran up to the workers and said, "Thank you for finishing the playground!" Even though the crane got stuck and it was boring to watch, it all worked out in the end.
Once upon a time, there was a big, strong man with a big, strong mustache. He was very proud of his mustache and would comb it every day. One day, he went to the park to play with his friends. He was having so much fun that he didn't notice his mustache had fallen off. He looked and looked but he couldn't find it anywhere. He felt sad because he loved his mustache so much. But then his friends helped him look and they found it in the grass. He was so happy to have his mustache back on his face.
Once upon a time, there was a clever little boy named Timmy. Timmy loved to play with his toy cars at the port. He would watch the big boats come and go, and dream of sailing away on one someday.

"Tom, Lily, what did you do?" Mom shouted. She grabbed them and ran out of the room. She called Dad and the firemen. They came and put out the fire. They checked the house and said it was safe.

They ran outside and fed and hugged the reindeer. Then they went back to bed and fell asleep. Santa flew away with his sleigh and his reindeer. He said, "Ho ho ho! What a wonderful night! Sam and Lily are the best children in the world!"

The dog didn't understand the joy that skipping could bring, so he just watched the cat skipping around and around. But eventually, he gave in and joined in. They both had a lot of fun skipping around the house, and everyone was happy.
The sun shone softly on the meadow. It was a perfect day to fly a kite. Tom had made his kite out of plastic. He couldn't wait to go to the meadow and fly it.

One day, she drew an image of a big dragon. She used green, red and yellow crayons to make it look scary and strong. She gave it wings, horns, teeth and a long tail. She thought it was her best image ever.

Alice was excited. She squealed with delight and said, “Let’s go, Mummy!�

One day, they decided to make a mountain of toys in their room. They piled up all their dolls, cars, blocks, books, and stuffed animals. They wanted to have the biggest and best mountain of toys in the world.

Mom watches them and smiles too. She is happy that they have made a new friend. She thinks that Snowy is a dependable swan. He is not shy or mean. He is polite and grateful. He shares his bread and his stories. He is a good swan.

But suddenly, something amazing happened. The light started to shine again! The darkness disappeared, and the light was happy and bright.

Lily just shrugged and said, "I like being lazy. It's fun to watch the fish and enjoy the sun." The little bug didn't understand and flew away.

From that day on, Rollie always looked where he was going when he rolled around the town. He played with his friends and visited the big church, but he never forgot to be careful. And they all lived happily ever after.
Once upon a time, there was a little dog named Bow. Bow loved to sing. One day, Bow found a microphone. Bow was very happy. Bow wanted to sing for everyone.

His mom laughed and said, "You scared me! You're a great hider. Let's play again!" They played another round of hide and seek and had lots of fun.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. Lily was feeling sick and her mommy wanted to check her temperature. She put a thermometer in Lily's mouth, but Lily didn't like it. She refused to keep it in her mouth and cried.

The next day, Daisy brought the rabbits some carrots and flowers as a thank you for being so welcoming. The rabbits were so touched, they invited Daisy to stay with them forever.

The End
Once upon a time there lived a hippo. He lived in a tiny pond and was very happy. One day, he asked the birds that lived nearby if they could give him a jug of water. The birds said yes, so they went to the river to get the jug of water.

Sarah had to be brave and eat it all. But she was brave and she ate the whole bowl of spaghetti! She was so proud of herself. She had managed to eat the biggest bowl of spaghetti!
One day, 2 friends were playing near a line. The line was very long and tough. The friends were smiling and having fun. Suddenly, they saw a large gust of wind. The gust of wind was so strong that it separated the line! The friends had never seen anything like it before.

But her mom said that she was going to have something else. The little girl got angry and insisted that dinner should only be pasta.

At first, Max was very nervous and just kept messing up but soon he was able to shape the clay just like his mommy. By the end of the day, he had created five flowers! His mommy was so proud!

Lily didn't know what a university was, but she knew it was important. She hugged her mommy and daddy and said, "I love you. Good luck at the big school!" While her parents were away, Lily played with her toys and ate sweet candy.

The orange cat thought for a moment. She had an idea. The cat found another ball. This ball was red. She gave the red ball to the dog. The dog was so happy. The cat and the dog played with their own balls. They became friends and played together every day.
Once upon a time, there was a calm little bird named Blue. Blue lived in a tiny nest in the west part of a big forest. He had many friends who loved to play with him.

So Susie followed Dusty. He led her to a hidden spot in the park and showed her something amazing. A group of birds were dancing in the air.

When they realized that it was too difficult, they decided to find another way to communicate.

Lily was excited to help her mommy and set off on her journey. She walked on a rough road and saw many pretty flowers along the way. She picked some and put them in the vase.

Lily was so excited. She strapped herself in, and the car zoomed around the park. The wind blew in her face and the sun shone on her skin. Lily had never felt so happy.

The little girl smiled, said yes and the two of them had a great time playing together for the rest of the afternoon.
Once upon a time there was a factory that made fake toys. The toys looked real, but they were not. One day a little girl named Jacky came to the factory. She saw a big box that was rolling around. Jacky opened the box, and there was an old rusty toy car inside! 

<INSTRUCTION> What were the two sisters doing? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> The two sisters were having so much fun until they heard a loud noise. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

"I can help!" said Sammy. "I'm very good at splitting nuts."

On the way to the valley, he saw a beautiful stream and a delicate flower. After he enjoyed his view, he continued walking and cheering himself on, being brave.

The big boy said sorry. He said he was sorry for taking their toys, breaking their toys and making them cry. He said he learned his lesson. He said he would not do it again.

The boy in the red coat looks at them. He does not care. He says, "I don't have to wait. I have a zip. Zips are cool. You don't have zips. You are not cool. I can slide whenever I want."

The fox still didn't move. So Jessi shrugged and said, "Well, I guess you don't want it."

Mia said, "Thank you!"

When they were done, they turned the lights on again and Sam hugged her mom. She said, "That was the best night ever!" Her mom smiled and hugged her back. 

Tom and Lily nodded and said:

But then, something serious happened. Lily's little brother, Jack, came running into the kitchen and accidentally knocked over the dessert. Lily was very upset and cried, "Oh no! My dessert is ruined!"

Jimmy swam around Bob, spraying water everywhere. He rubbed Bob's back with a soft cloth until it was clean and shiny. 

"Can we have some cake, please?" they asked.

George thought it would be fun, so he did. They kicked the lemons as high as they could and laughed as they spun in the sky. 

Tom nods. He likes juice. He takes a cup and holds it out. Mia pours some juice into his cup. "Thank you," Tom says. He takes a sip. The juice is sweet and cold.

The old lady told Daisy that she was lonely because she had no friends. Daisy wanted to help the old lady. Daisy asked the old lady to play with her and her ball. They started to bounce the ball together. They laughed and had fun. Soon, the old lady was not sad anymore. She was happy because she had a new friend.

Sarah had lots of fun painting with the old man and never forgot that day. Every time she saw a broken bottle, she remembered the kindness of the old man.
Billy loved to decorate. He always gardened by his porch and created unique designs to put around it. 

"That was scary," Ben says. "We should not go near the boat again."

Lily was happy and played with the big bucket for a while. She gained a lot of sand too and had so much fun. The boy said, "You can keep playing with my bucket, I have to go home now." Lily was grateful and thanked the boy. She went home with her bucket and the memory of her fun day.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to play dress-up and wear costumes. One day, she found a brilliant mask in her toy box. It was shiny and sparkly, and she loved it so much.

One day, when Jane was walking, she stumbled on a big rock. Jane got scared and started to cry a little bit. But then she saw something very fancy.

The hero was happy to help and quickly agreed. He gathered his brave friends and set off to find the monster.

The kangaroo and the joey nodded and hopped around the park with Lily and Ben. They had a lot of fun. Mom watched them and took some pictures.

"Wow, mom, that was incredible!" Tom said. "The story and the subway were both amazing!"

Lucy smiled and said, "Yes please." 

Mommy said, "That's great, Molly! Now, can you help me get the pasta out of the pot?"

They went to their mom. They showed her Molly's dress. They told her what happened. Mom smiled. She said she was proud of them for saying sorry. She said she could fix Molly's dress.

"It is a silly hat. It has a big flower on top. It makes you look funny. It makes you smile. It gives you spirit," Tom said.

The little girl was scared, but she stayed in the boat. It started bouncing up and down and she could feel the wind. The waves got bigger and bigger and the boat continued to rock.

Finally, Lily reached the top of the hill. She was so happy! She could see everything from up there. She felt like she was on top of the world. After a while, she started to walk back down the hill. She was tired but very proud of herself for climbing so high.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. One day, she went to the kitchen to get some milk from the refrigerator. But when she opened the door, she saw that her little brother had left the door open and all the food inside was getting warm.

And Alison happily skipped off home, knowing she had done the right thing.
Sam saw a really big cop. He smiled and waved at him.
"Hi, cop!" he said.

Emma said, "What is it? Can I help?" Her mom said, "Yes, we're going to catch a pie!" Emma liked the sound of that and was excited to go. 

<INSTRUCTION> What di Joan's mother say to her? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Her mother said, Joan, you must take a nap and prevent getting too hot. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

The children nodded excitedly and ran off to the swings. Sally and her aunt followed too. Sally's aunt was very playful. She laughed and had so much fun with the children on the swings.

Nia saw something different on the ground. It was a tiny mint! She was about to pick it up and enjoy it, when her friend spoke up. "You shouldn't disturb the mint," the friend said. 

"I don't know," Tim said, looking at it. "Maybe it is a secret code or a map!"

Suddenly she felt a sharp pain in her ankle. She started to cry. She wanted to go back inside but the pain was too strong. She sat down and cried.

Mum asked, “What do you think the cable is for?�

Lily and Ben hugged and laughed. They had a good time in the pool. They learned that diving was fun and that colors were nice. They also learned that sharing was kind and that friendship was sweet. They were happy and proud of themselves.
Anna and Ben are friends. They like to play with blocks. They make towers and houses and cars with the blocks. They have fun.

When they finished sorting the salad, Mary smiled and said, "Thanks for helping me sort the salad, Ben!"

Finally, the bird came back and landed in the backyard. Lily quickly caught it and put it in the birdcage. She was very happy and excited to have a new pet. From that day on, Lily took good care of her bird and they became best friends.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to help her mom with the laundry. One day, Lily's mom asked her to send the laundry to the washing machine. 

Joy turned the page and there was a map with a star right in the middle. Joy was so excited! She followed the map, and sure enough, soon she was standing right beneath a star. Joy had reached her dream!
Once upon a time there was an old oak tree. The old oak tree was very tall and always smiled in the sunshine.

Lily and Tom were not happy. They did not want to miss the moon. They started to scream and cry. They threw a tantrum and kicked their feet.

Luke smiled and started stretching his arms. The cloud did the same. After a few minutes, Luke was so tired, he fell asleep. While he was sleeping, the cloud blew away.

After dinner, Timmy and his family went for a walk in the woods. They saw a big, clear lake and decided to go for a swim. Timmy splashed around in the water and had so much fun. 

Mona looked at the tree and said, "Don't worry about it, Ben. Look over there, a yoga spot."

This is a lesson for life. With bravery and a never-give-up attitude, we can soar and achieve anything. So, be brave and never give up!
Once upon a time, there lived a tall man. He was walking in the forest late one night. As he walked, he thought about what his opinion of the dark night and the rough path he was traveling. All of a sudden, he heard a voice.

As they walked around, they saw many different things, like a big park with lots of trees and a fountain. They also saw a big museum with lots of interesting things inside. Lily loved looking at all the paintings and sculptures. 

Sam nods. He likes lemonade. It is sweet and cold and refreshing. Mom cuts the lemon and squeezes it into a pitcher. She adds water and sugar and stirs it. She pours some lemonade into a cup and gives it to Sam.

But then a teacher came in and saw what was happening. "Mary," she said, "what are you doing? You can't share out candy in the classroom."

<INSTRUCTION> What were the two sisters doing? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> The two sisters were having so much fun until they heard a loud noise. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

This made Jack sad, so he decided to go on a journey. He wanted to find someone who could appreciate his hard work and original bow. Jack traveled for many days, until he came across a great castle. He walked through the castle gates and saw lots of people in the castle courtyard. 

"Now," said Mum, "Can you help me lift the blouse on my bed?"

Sue went to her house and found a big jug. She had an idea. She would catch a bug in the jug and show it to Tim. Then, maybe Tim would want to be her friend. Sue went outside and looked for a bug to catch.

Molly starts to walk slowly around the farm. Ben and Jen are happy and excited. They see the cows, the sheep, the chickens, and the ducks. They wave to them and say their names. Molly makes a funny noise with her mouth, like she is talking to them too.

Suddenly, she saw a book with a wild animal on the cover. It was a lion with a big, furry mane. She stared at the lion and said to her mommy, "Look at this book! It has a big, wild lion on it!"

And so, Timmy and Billy spent the rest of the day playing inside, having just as much fun as they did outside. The end.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to draw and write in her journal. One day, Lily's mom asked her to clean her room. 

She took the key and ran after Anna. She hoped she would find her and make up with her. She hoped Anna would still be her friend. She hoped they could seat together and look at the pretty things and smile.
Lila was a big girl who liked to drive her toy car. She had a pink car with four wheels and a horn. She liked to go fast and make noise. She also had a license that her dad made for her. It had her name and picture on it. She was very proud of her license.

Amy's mom was in the kitchen and she was making a yucky, bitter drink. She knew Amy didn't like bitter things, but she wanted her to try it. She called Amy to come and taste the drink. Amy left the toy toilet in her room and went to the kitchen.

Mom and Dad hugged Ben and Mia and told them that they loved them. They also told them that they had to be careful and share and cooperate when they played. They said that building a palace was fun, but not as important as being safe and kind.

Later that day, Lily's friend, Tommy, came over to play. Lily wanted to show Tommy her new doll. "Tommy, look at my new doll! My mommy gave it to me as a gift," she said. Tommy looked at the doll and said, "Wow, Lily! That's a very thoughtful gift from your mommy. Let's play with your doll together!" 

So Jack opened the door of the chamber with a creak and stepped inside. 
His mouth dropped open when he saw the giant fur ball inside. 
The giant fur ball suddenly started to move and laughed.

Lucy smiled and gave her Mom a big hug. She would never forget this special moment and the mine she had found in the garden.
Once there was a man and he was tired. His name was Mr. Joseph. One day he decided to gain a new job as a lawyer. He went to a building with a sign that said 'Lawyer', and he went inside.

Her mom tried to comfort her and said, "It's okay, Lily. We can clean it up and make another one tomorrow." But Lily was still sad and didn't want to make another dessert. She went to bed feeling very disappointed that her hard work had been destroyed.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Timmy who loved to eat yummy candy. One day, he saw a big bag of candy at the store and he wanted it so much. But his mom said no and told him to tie his shoes instead. Timmy didn't want to tie his shoes, so he ignored his mom and ran away to the candy aisle.

He marched around until he found something amazing. It was a huge, green apple. Yum! 

Lily's friend said, "Don't worry, I know how to get our ball back." She had a plan. They went to the boy and asked him nicely to give back their ball. But the boy refused and said mean things. So, Lily's friend took off her smooth sunglasses and gave them to the boy. She said, "If you give us back our ball, you can keep these cool sunglasses."

"Roar!" Ben says. "I am the dragon and I am hungry!"

Bob stood up in the chair and shouted, “Excuse me, Sir! My head is not covered properly and we need to fix it at once!�
The man smiled and nodded his head. Bob grabbed the soft white towel, covered his head and smiled back.

The woman then reached for a small box, opening its lid. She carefully placed the battery inside, before connecting a few wires. Suddenly, the room was illuminated with bright lights.

But then, everyone at the party said the house was beautiful. They praised Mama for her decorations. She was so happy. Everyone clapped and celebrated. 

Daisy happily jumped up to swing and took a hold of the pole. Suddenly the pole snapped in half, Daisy gasped and exploded into tears.

<INSTRUCTION> What Anna and Bella do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Anna and Bella laughed, knowing that the table in the garden was a very special place. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

One day, she goes to see a sick man. His name is Tom. He is very heavy. He has a big belly and a red face. He breathes hard. He lies on a bed with wheels.

Grandma said to Grandpa, "We need something special for this spell." 

Ben and Lily want to pet the dog. They ask their mom if they can. Mom says yes, but they have to be gentle and ask the dog's owner first. The dog's owner is a nice lady who says the dog's name is Max.

"Hey, that's not fair!" Sara says. She pretends to be angry. But she is not really angry. She is having fun.

From that day on, Lily made sure to take extra care of her crystal necklace. And whenever she felt sad or empty, she remembered the love and comfort her mommy gave her.
Once upon a time, there was a big gorilla. He lived in a jungle with his friends. One day, he wanted to decorate his treehouse. He asked his friends to help him. They all said yes! They picked out fine leaves and colorful flowers to decorate the treehouse. It looked so pretty! The gorilla was happy and thanked his friends. They all had fun together. The end.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She had a pony named Sparky. One day, Lily and Sparky went to the park to play. They saw a little boy there who had a ball. 

The painter smiled again and said, “Yes, I can do that for you. I can make it very special.�

Mia's experience taught her that it's important to stand up for yourself when someone teases you.
Once there was a boy named Tim. He liked to play with his big toy box. One day, Tim opened up his toy box and saw something funny; a metal. It was shiny and smooth, but it was too big to play with.

After a few minutes, the sticks began to melt in the bowl. Mike was amazed! He asked his dad, "What happened?"

Tim knew he needed to turn the switch off to make the room bright again. He picked up his ball and threw it at the switch. The ball hit the switch, and the room became bright once more. Tim was happy and learned to be careful when playing with switches.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Amy. Amy loved to play outside in the sun. One day, as she was playing, she found a dry leaf on the ground. She picked it up and showed it to her friend, Tom.

"This is for you," the girl said smiling. She handed the elderly woman the toy car.

At last, Tom found a toy he liked. It was a big, soft ball. He played with it all day. But when it was time to sleep, Tom could not sleep. The big, soft ball made a loud noise when he moved it. It would wake him up.

She tries to take the ball. But it is too late. The ball makes a loud noise. It breaks. It makes fire. It makes smoke. It hurts Mama. It hurts Lila. It hurts Ben.

Elin thought hard, and then she said, "OK. I understand now. People should always be nice and trade fairly." Her mum was so proud of her that she hugged Elin tightly and said, "That's right! It's important to remember that".

"I come from a place far away," answered the large fish. "I take a bath in the tide every day. Do you do the same?"

The lion, who was the leader of the animals, thought and thought. He realised how he could help the hippo. He asked the other animals to provide toys, fruits and food for the hippo. Each animal provided something special. When the hippo saw all the things the animals had provided for him, he felt much happier. 

Lily went to the mailbox and put the picture inside. She was excited for her grandma to receive it. The next day, Lily's grandma called her on the phone. She said she got the mail and loved the sweet picture. 

Lily and Jack played together for a while, and they had lots of fun. When it was time to go home, Lily said goodbye to Jack and thanked him for playing with her. She went home happy, thinking about her new friend and the word fair.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Timmy. Timmy loved to play with his toys and run around outside. One day, Timmy was playing with his toy truck when he heard his mom calling him for dinner. 

Mommy smiled too. She hugged me and said "You look just like a little present" Then she gave me a kiss.

The workers saw that the 3 year old girl was very sad, so they decided to let her help. They told her she could spray a few things, but only if she was careful and listened to everyone.

Sara stops crying and nods. She hugs Ben back and says, "OK, Ben. We can make it again. But we have to be careful. We do not want to make more sounds. Mom will be mad."

They also see the firefighters put out the fire and save the people in the house. They are brave and strong and helpful. They clap and cheer for them.

Sylvester was very happy to have caught Tweety. He took Tweety home and was about to eat him when Tweety had an idea. He asked Sylvester to let him sing one last song before he was eaten. Sylvester agreed and Tweety sang the most beautiful song ever. Sylvester was so moved that he decided to let Tweety go free.

His mom smiled and said, “I'm so glad we found my pig. Let's go home.� So they both walked back home, holding hands.
Once upon a time there was a little girl who was very hungry. She looked all around the place, but she couldn't find anything to eat. Then she found a little house and she decided to go inside. 

The cat stared at Timothy for a moment, then slowly stepped closer. Timothy smiled and gently stroked the cat's head. Suddenly, the cat jumped up onto Timothy's shoulder and purred.

The beetle smiled, and nodded its head. Then, it flew onto the tip of Emmy's finger. Emmy smiled, and the beetle flew away.

Lily's mom told her that sometimes we need to prevent things from happening, like getting hurt or losing our toys. Lily thought about this and decided to be more careful when playing outside.

Mom smiles and says, "I'm sure he will. But first, we need to mix the batter. Do you want to help me with the mixer?" Anna nods and runs to the counter. She puts on her apron and holds the mixer with both hands. Mom turns it on and guides it through the bowl. Anna feels the mixer vibrate and shake. She giggles and says, "This is fun!"

So they all worked together to build the tower. They rose one wheat stalk at a time until it was as tall as they were! They were so proud of their tower and they all cheered when it was done.

The little boy was very upset. He didn't want to be disturbed while he was trying to sleep. 

The little boy smiled and said, "I'm very proud that I was able to see it." He and his Mommy watched the sunset and enjoyed it together.
John and Sarah were playing together in the park. John picked up a piece of bubble gum and popped it into his mouth. It was spicy! He liked the taste, but Sarah didn't. She said, "You should surrender it, John. It's too spicy for you!" But John shook his head and refused. He refused to surrender it back.

Timmy replied, "No, they always make fun of me because I'm little."

The moral of the story is to always be polite and share with others. It can make the world a happier place for everyone.
Once upon a time, there was a happy little boy named Tim. Tim loved to go to the beach with his mom and dad. One sunny day, they all went to the beach to play.

From that day on, she often visited her bunny friends in the house in the tree.
Once upon a time there was a puppy named Max. He was a patient little pup and he was very excited. 

But Silly was still scared. He kept imagining all the things that could be hiding in the snow. Suddenly, he heard the noise again, and he ran away. 

Lily is still angry, but she is also kind. She sees the boy is not bad, just silly. She takes her dress and puts it on. She looks at Anna and smiles.

Nora was so excited about her discoveries. She spent the day measuring all sorts of different kinds of lumber with her purple ruler. By the end of the day, she was very happy and very tired. 

That day, Jack and Jill had an amazing time and each went home with a smile. And they promised to come back to the harbor soon and match again.
Once upon a time there were two friends, Jack and Jill. They were playing together in a big field. 

Lily was having so much fun that she accidentally spilled her ice cream on her shirt. Her mom said, "Let's wipe it off with this napkin." 

They followed the shore of the lake, hoping to find Max. They searched and searched, but they could not see him.

Mama stirred the soup with the spoons. It smelled very good. When it was ready, she put it on a tray. She looked around the kitchen and made sure that everything was tidy. 

This made the daughter feel much better. She imagined a bright and sunny world, with no fierce weather. She also imagined playing with her family, and having lots of fun. The daughter felt very happy - just thinking of the sunshine made her forget all about the fierce storm outside!
One sunny day, Mom and Baby were walking to the park. Baby saw something amazing and wanted to go investigate.

"Why don't you store it outside in the earth?" Dad said.

The dad and the little girl had a wonderful time playing together and learning about paper. And from that day on, they made sure to have lots of paper, so they could have fun and make things together.
Once upon a time there were two friends, Sam and Jack. Sam liked to fight and Jack liked to itch. One day, the sky was gloomy and Sam wanted to fight. Jack was itchy and he didn't want to fight. Sam said he would take an itch break and fight first.

The fish replied "I would like some tuna. Can you find me some?". Tim was so excited! He quickly rushed home and returned with a freshly-caught tuna. He slowly placed the tuna in the water in front of the fish.

Lily nodded and hugged Sara back. She learned her lesson. She promised to be a better friend. They went back to playing with dolls and dress up. They were happy again.
Tom and Lily liked to play golf with their dad. He had a big bag of golf balls and clubs that he let them use in the park. Sometimes he taught them how to hit the ball far and straight, and sometimes he let them make up their own rules.

Now the brave girl can bike around the park every day and she always tells her mum and dad how much she loves it. They know it was all because of the park keeper who recommended the bike shop.
One day there was a bald man who worked in a factory. Every morning he would wake up and go to work. One day something strange and wonderful happened - it started to spring!

Molly opened the dictionary and saw lots of strange words that she didn't understand. She started to worry and wondered what all the words meant.

Mia and Leo looked at Max and saw that he was not so scary. He was just a big, fluffy dog. They felt sorry for running away from him. They decided to give him a chance and be nice to him.

Tom and Lily nodded. They were scared and sorry. They hugged Mom and Dad and said they were sorry. They promised to be obedient and not play with matches again.

After dinner, Lily's parents surprised her with a special snack - ice cream! Lily was so happy and grateful. She surrendered to the joy of the moment and enjoyed every bite. From that day on, Lily learned that surrendering to the good things in life can bring happiness.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to watch TV all day long. But one day, her mom said, "Lily, you need to stop watching TV all day. You need to go outside and play." Lily didn't like this. She wanted to watch TV all day. So, she started to cry.

As she walked, she heard a strange voice coming from the trees. She couldn't make out the words, but it seemed like a person was talking. Annie paused and listened.

Sally clapped her hands and laughed. “Yay! We can see what happens when we mix sand!�

<INSTRUCTION> What Anna and Bella do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Anna and Bella laughed, knowing that the table in the garden was a very special place. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

"You know what, Lily? You can keep the doll. I have another one at home," Ben said.

Hannah curled up in a chair and was cozy and warm for the rest of the day.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Abby. She was three years old and she loved to play outside in the sunshine. One day, Abby went out to play in the garden. As she walked, she saw a flag blowing in the wind. She had never seen a flag before, so she asked her mummy, "What is that?" 

Sara and Tom nod. They say thank you. They hug each other. They are friends again. They wait for the yellow brain to be fixed. They hope it will make funny sounds and lights again.
One day, Tom and Lily went to the park with their mom. They saw a big rocket that could fly to space. Tom and Lily wanted to go inside and see the stars and planets.

Max hugs Lily. He says, "You're welcome, Lily. I love you. Can I help you make another card?"

Sam smiles. He says, "Thank you, Ben. You are my best friend too. You are very cool."

"Look, Mia, a flower!" Sam said.

But then Lily's little brother came into the room. He saw Lily wearing the mask and started crying. Lily realized that her brother was scared of the mask. She took it off and said, "I'm sorry. I didn't think it would scare you. I'll be more alert next time." From then on, Lily was more careful about what masks she wore around her brother.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Timmy. Timmy loved to play outside with his friends, but he didn't like to cover his mouth when he sneezed. One day, Timmy's friend caught a cold because Timmy sneezed on him.

From then on, the bear and the lion hugged each other every day - to show that they are still friends.
Once upon a time there was a nosy lumberjack. He was always busy looking for lumber, no matter what was going on.

His dad brought out some clear plastic containers and some gardening tools. Jack was so happy to see the equipment that he hugged his dad.

One day he decided to explore the world outside his house. He knew he wasn't allowed, but he thought maybe he could find something fun.

The end!
Once upon a time there was a pretty little girl called Lily. She loved playing in the park with her friends.

"Oh no, our pen is broken too. Now we can't draw anymore," Sara says.

One day, Jack decided to go on an adventure. He climbed to the top of a big hill and looked around. He saw a yummy looking lake of hot cocoa. It was all warm and smelled so good.

<INSTRUCTION> What were the two sisters doing? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> The two sisters were having so much fun until they heard a loud noise. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Her mom replied, "Of course, Lily! We can play together."

They throw away their cups and look for something else to drink. They see a man with a big jug. He says he has apple juice. They think apple juice is good. They ask for some.

From then on, Lily's parent made sure to ask her if she liked something before bringing it home. Lily was happy and never had to worry about not liking sweet things again.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She had a toy train with a big engine that she loved to play with. One day, Lily's mommy told her it was time to take a bath. Lily didn't want to stop playing, but she knew she had to listen to her mommy. 

The little boy was so happy that he ran around the garden, laughing and jumping. His parents chased him around and laughed too. 

They saw a big pile of wood and metal. They looked like bandages to them. They carried some of them to their dolls. They did not hear the loud noise of a truck coming closer.

At the fair, they see many things. They see balloons, animals, games, and rides. They want to try everything. They play a game where they throw balls at cans. If they knock down all the cans, they win a prize.

Jimmy nodded and said “Thank you�. The truck driver handed over a warm blanket and said, “Take care of yourself and always remember your helmet�.

The sun was shining bright and they were all very tired. The lion saw a big tree and told his friends to rest under it. They all sat down and had some food. The lion was happy that he was able to lead his friends to a safe place. 

Tom was so relieved and grateful to have his block back. He grabbed his block and ran around happily. 

Lily ran outside and found her caterpillar friend. He was happy to see her and they played together. From that day on, Lily always remembered to visit her friendly caterpillar friend.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to play outside in the garden. One day, she found a worm wriggling on the ground. Lily was glad to see the worm because she liked animals.

The puppy was so excited to model for all the people he met. He loved meeting new people and showing off how obedient he could be. People would say, "What a nice puppy!"

"What's that?" Emily said as she pointed to the gray memory. 

"Let's play with it!", Danny suggested.

His mommy said, "We need to clean up the backyard. It's difficult work, but we can do it together." 

Daisy beamed and said, "I'm excited for my very own year!" Daisy's Mom smiled and replied, "Me too! Let's have a wonderful year together!"
Once upon a time there was a fair tree. It grew straight and tall and its branches were long and sharp.

Fluffy does not like the noise. He jumps on the sofa and hides behind a pillow. He wishes Tom and Mia would stop. He wishes they would play with him. He misses their hugs and kisses. He thinks the ball is boring. He does not want to repeat anything. He only wants to meow.
Anna and Ben are friends. They like to play in the farm. One day, they see a big truck with many bags of wheat. The truck is slow and loud.

Sally shook her head and shouted, "No! This tree supports us all. You can't cut it down!"

"Why aren't you happy for me?" asked Jack.

Lily was even more nervous now but she still asked, "What can I do?" 
The dragon gently said, "I just need one thing - to complete my mission. I need to sleep in a small cave and when I wake, I will be powerful enough to fly away from here."

As they played, Anna said to Buddy, "You are the best dog ever!" Buddy wagged his tail happily. They ran and played until they were tired. Then, they sat under a big tree to rest. Anna's dad took a picture of them with his camera, and they all had a great day at the park.
One day, a girl named Lily went for a walk in the woods. She saw a big, scary tree. It had long branches that seemed to stretch out like arms. Lily felt a little scared, but she wanted to see what was behind the tree.

Her mom replied, "Yes, it sure is. Have a great time, Zoe!"

But the Lazy Cart just stayed in its spot and didn't move. Sarah tried to push and pull it but it wouldn't budge.

The end.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl who lived on a farm. She had her own pet pig named Stan, who she loved very much. Everyday, she would take Stan for a walk around the farm.

They kissed her and said, "We love you, Lily. Good night."

Molly ran over to her mom. Her mom was holding a big, thick blanket. She said, "Molly, I have something special wrapped up inside this blanket. Would you like to open it?"

Lily started to feel worried. She didn't know where her ball was, and she wanted to play with it. She decided to ask her friends if they had seen it. Her friends said they hadn't seen it, but Lily saw a thief running away with her ball! 

"Next time, be more careful and respectful. Do not destroy the room. Do not make a big mess. Follow the rules of the hotel. Have fun, but not too much fun."

Max said, "Let's play hide and seek. I'll hide and you find me."

Mom smiled and said, "Okay, but only for a little while. And stay close to me. Don't go too far."

Later that day, Tom's friend received the envelope. When he opened it, he saw Tom's drawing inside. He was so happy to get such a lovely surprise. He told Tom that the surprise was "terrible", which meant it was very, very good.

Tom was so happy that he smiled and hugged them. From then on, he was even more eager to learn new skills.
Once upon a time, there was a special girl called Anna who had a very special passport. Everyone wanted her passport because it was honest and it said she could go anywhere in the world.

Then one day, a bad man came down the street. He had some money, but he decided to take the little girl’s money instead.

Bob smiled and said, "Hello Lisa. Do you want to part?"

Lily feels sorry for Tom. She puts her hand on his chest. She listens to his heart. It goes thump-thump-thump very fast. She looks at a machine that shows numbers and lines. The numbers and lines are high.

He asked the shopkeeper, "Do you have any elephants?"

As he climbed, he met a friendly bird. The bird said, "Hi, I am Bob. Let's talk." Tim and Bob talked and laughed as they climbed to the top of the tree together. They became good friends.

The baby smiled and together they bent down to pick up the jar. 

The mouse was so relieved. It thanked the lion for helping to prevent the paint from spilling. The lion smiled warmly and said it was no problem. Together, they had saved the bucket of paint and made the garden a happy place.
Once upon a time, there was a sailor. He loved to go out on his boat, so one sunny day, he did just that. The sailor moved his boat around the lake, and all around he could see, the birds flying and the fish swimming. He was having lots of fun.

"Yes, please help me keep the soup off the floor," Lily said.

At the end of the day the welcome said her goodbyes and promised to come again soon.

The boat stopped to rest. The anchor went into the water. The anchor held the boat in place. The boat was safe and happy. The mighty boat and its anchor were good friends. They loved to be together in the sea.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She lived in a house with her mommy and daddy. The house had an upstairs where Lily's room was. Lily loved to play in her room with her toys.

Sally's mommy was watching and clapping for her. She told Sally that dancing was healthy for her. She said it made her happy, and when she was happy it made her feel better!

"Ouch!" cried Timmy.

"Thank you," the man said. He gave her a cup of juice.

Tim and Sam were upset, but they did not give up. They asked their friends, the birds, to help. The birds pulled the ship with their strong wings. The ship moved and everyone was happy. Tim said, "Now, I believe the ship is reliable with our friends' help." Sam agreed and they all had a fun day on the ship.
Once upon a time, there was a pretty flower. The flower was red and smelled nice. It wanted to grow big and strong.

So Tom and his mum sat down on the bench and started discussing the novel. They discussed the characters, the plot and the emotions in the novel. Although Tom was only three years old, he understood the novel and even felt sad and hurt when a character in the novel was hurt.

The little bird learned that it's important to rest when you're tired, especially in the winter when it's cold and windy. From then on, the little bird made sure to take breaks and rest when it needed to.
Once upon a time, there was a wealthy family who had a big table. One day, the table broke and the family was sad. The father said, "We need to replace the table." The mother and the children agreed.

Benny promised to show Elly how her big ears and long nose made her special. They went to the river, and Benny asked Elly to use her long nose to spray water on the dry plants. Elly did and the plants grew happy and green. Then, Benny asked Elly to use her big ears to fan the hot animals. Elly did, and all the animals felt cool and happy.

One day, Sara finds a new book in her room. It is a big book with a shiny cover. She opens it and sees many pictures. She sees a picture of a chain. A chain is a long thing with many round parts. She reads the words under the picture. The words say: "A chain can be used to pull, to lock, or to make noise."

One day, Bob's mom told him that she was getting married. "What is marriage?" asked Bob.

Lily then tried walking backwards herself and it felt so strange but fun. The holiday was so special and she loved spending slow times with her parents. Eventually the holiday ended, but Lily will never forget the day.
Once there was a pig named Fred. He was very hungry and looked for something to eat. He saw a big red barn and wanted to go inside to find something to eat. But when he got to the door, he found it was locked. He asked the farmer for food. But the farmer refused. He said that he was not allowed to give food to animals from the barn.

The sunflower and the butterfly were so happy to be together again, they flew off into the sky to explore the world.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl who loved to play guitar. She would lay down on the grass beneath the big old tree and strum her guitar. She loved to make the happy sounds, though it was not always easy for her.

When Jake saw the bus, he became so excited! He had never seen a bus so big and shiny before. He smiled and said, "I'm going to do it! I'm going to be the best bus driver ever!"

Papa nodded. “Scan I help you lift it?� 

The man grabbed his fishing pole and said, "Let's shoot over to the other side of the lake. It will be fun!" 

Hannah was happy; she had a new toy! She took off running with it and never looked back.

On the way, she saw a real soldier walking in the rain. He was wearing a big hat, shiny boots, and a long coat. Kate stopped and looked at him.

Finally, after he was fed and washed, they said goodbye to the park. Mama was glad she had such a fun day with her little boy. He smiled and held her hand as they walked home.
The sun was shining on the beautiful lake. A family was out for a picnic. They laughed and played together and it was a perfect day.

He came across a patch of delicious carrots growing in the sun. The rabbit was so excited he began munching away. Suddenly, he heard someone calling. 

One day, they decided to play a game. Sam said, "I will be the driver of the red train, and you will be the passenger of the blue train. We will go to different places and have fun." Mia agreed, and they put on their hats and clothes.

His mom was so proud of Little Bear for being so brave and finding such a wonderful reward! Little Bear hugged his mom and they shared a very happy moment.
Once upon a time there was a little girl. She was three years old and full of energy. She was always curious to know what was new and different in the world.

He traveled on and on, until he could see the land he had been dreaming of. He was so happy and he ran as fast as he could until he was right in the middle of the special place.

Alice smiled. She was so proud to have managed to open the gate without scattering anything around.
Once upon a time, there were two best friends called Joe and Sal. Joe was a little kid who loved to play all day. One day, Joe and Sal decided to have a camping trip together. They put up the tent, built a campfire and gathered some tasty snacks. Joe was so happy, but Sal was in a rush.

Lily felt sad for the young boy and wanted to help him. She looked around and found the toy car near a tree. The young boy was very happy and thanked Lily. From that day on, they became good friends and would often play together at the park. Lily loved having a new friend and was happy to help him find his toy car.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She was walking on the street with her mommy. It was a cold day, and Lily was wearing her warm coat. She saw her friend Billy on the other side of the street and wanted to go say hi. 

The policeman said, "Don't worry, little girl. I'm sure we'll find it soon."

From that day on, Freddy and Lily were the happiest couple in the pond and they always made sure to use plenty of stamps when sending letters to their loved ones.
Once upon a time, there was a little bird named Tweetie. Tweetie lived in a treehouse with a red roof. One day, Tweetie decided to fly to the park to play with his friends.

"These are yummy!" Anna said.

Jane smiled and said, "Yes, mommy!" She opened the cupboard and grabbed two cups of rice. She gently poured them into the bowl.

"This is the suit I want," Joe said. "I want to buy it!"

At the market, Lucy saw a big red ball. She wanted to play with it, but her mom said no. Lucy was sad, but she knew her mom was right. They needed to find the new shoes first.

"Look at the tree!", said Timmy. He was amazed to see so many olives! He touched one of them and smiled. 

Daisy picked up the match and chewed it. She was so happy that she jumped up and down and barked to say "Thank you!".

The little girl was so excited to go on her trip. She started packing her bag full of fun things and decided to go on a boat. When she arrived on the boat, the little girl was so happy. She got to explore the waves and see the sun set in the sky.

Her mom was harsh. She said, "Lily, if you don't study, you can't dance. You have to do your homework first, or I will take away your TV and your music and your shoes. You have to listen to me. I know what is best for you."

"I don't know. Maybe we should ask someone," Max said.

The little boy was so happy that his singing helped him get his rest. He thanked the bird for being such a good listener and they both fell asleep until morning.
Once upon a time there was a rabbit who liked to speed. He liked to zip around so fast that no one else could catch him. He zoomed through the meadow and even hopped faster than the wind.

Jack liked to play alone in the park, but he was a little scared because he imagined a bad thing might happen. He felt like there was a threat. 

Lily felt happy that she could help the boy and his sister. She realized that even though she was small, she could have a big impact on others by being kind and standing up for what is right. And she still had the shiny rock in her pocket to remind her of the good deed she had done.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to play outside in her backyard. One day, she found a small plant and decided to take care of it. She watered it every day and watched it grow bigger and bigger.

David was so amazed. He couldn't believe what had just happened. He had never seen anything move so fast before!
Once upon a time there were two friends. They wanted to have an adventure. So, they decided to choose a cart.

Mum nodded and put her hand on his shoulder. "It's very pretty, but we have to be careful. I definitely don't recommend picking it."

"Hello, butterflies!" said Lily. "Can I play with you?"

Lily has an idea. She says, "Let's prepare a towel. We can dry the slide with it. Then we can slide down fast and have fun."

Maggie looked at her feet and mumbled, "That it wasn't a good idea".

The people on the boat say, "You're welcome, you're welcome! Have fun on the shore!"
Tom is a boy who likes to play with cars. He has many cars of different colors and sizes. He likes to make them zoom and crash on the floor. But one day, he breaks his favorite car. It is a red car with a big engine and shiny wheels. He feels sad and cries.

Sara says, "Yes, please!"

Ben nodded and handed the root to Lily. She felt how hard and rough it was. She wondered what kind of plant it came from.

Her mom looked at the word and explained what it meant. Carolyn still didn't quite understand, so she insisted that her mom explain again.

The End.
Once upon a time, there was a nosy little girl. She loved to explore different places. One day, she was at the library and saw an icicle melting. She got excited and decided to put her hands out to catch the drops of water. As the icicle melted, one drop after another went into her hands. The nosy little girl was so excited to see the liquid that she wanted to play with the melting drops all day. Suddenly, the library opened and she had to go inside. But, she took a piece of the icicle home with her. As she looked at it, she imagined the icicle melting all over her hands again.
Once upon a time there was a chubby little lab. He was so happy and playful that he liked to stay in his lab all day. It was so much fun for him to stay there, he would look around and explore. He found lots of exciting things to explore and play with.

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan learn? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She learnt that she could prevent getting too hot by playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

"Wow, Tom, you made the coin vanish! How did you do that?" Anna said, amazed.

"Thank you, I like your pretty dress," replied the crocodile.

One day while playing, Emma found a page which had numbers on it. She asked her mom "what's this?".

'Let's go outside and play,' her mum said.

"Hello, rabbit," she says. "Do you want a carrot? I have a carrot for you. You can share it with me."

One day, Tim's mom said, "Tim, let's try something new today." She gave Tim a bowl of cereal with colorful shapes. Tim looked at the cereal and said, "This is not normal cereal, Mom."

"I was wondering if I could get my pick. I've been really good so I thought I might get one," Bob said politely.

They let go of the log and ran back to the shore. The crocodile snapped at them, but they were too fast. They reached the shore and ran to their house. They were scared and wet and muddy.

Ben says, "Thank you, Lily! Look, I have something for you!" He shows her his picture. He says, "This is us. We are best friends. I made this for you. Do you like it?"

Sam and Lily looked at him and said, "OK, Tom. We forgive you. You can play with us. We can share our toys and have fun."

On the way home, one of the tires of the car fell off. Jacky looked sad, and so she stopped at a store to buy another tire. She looked at all the tires, but none of them fit her toy car. 

<INSTRUCTION> What were the two sisters doing? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> The two sisters were having so much fun until they heard a loud noise. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan learn? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She learnt that she could prevent getting too hot by playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Mia climbed up the stairs and reached the top of the slide. She looked down and saw other kids sliding and laughing. She felt a little brave and let go of her mom's hand.

“That’s a dangerous snake,� said the bird. “He wants to bite you.�

Maddy’s mom hugged her. “I’m so proud of you! You were so brave and so attractive!�
Jack was feeling happy. He was playing outside in his backyard. He hopped along the fence, trying to touch his toes as he walked. Suddenly, he spotted a lazy rabbit eating the grass. Jack stopped to stare. He was fascinated by the cute animal. He wanted to pet it.

They tried to stop Ben, but he was bigger and stronger. He pushed them away and laughed. He thought he was better than them. He thought he could do whatever he wanted.

Jenny smiled and nodded her head in agreement. "Oh, look how tidy it is!" she said as it fluffed up its feathers.

So they both went outside and the mom showed Joe the perfect way to walk. She said, "Just put one foot in front of the other and keep going like this."

Her mom said, "I'm busy right now, but try to open the door yourself."

The little girl smiled, knowing that her mommy would always protect her and keep her safe.
Once upon a time, there was a bright guard who lived in a castle. He loved to look out of the big windows at the people who would visit from all over the world. 

"Can we use it?" Anna asks.

The tree said, "I may not look like it, but I'm full of surprises. Come and take a closer look and see what you can catch!" 

<INSTRUCTION> What idea did Joan have? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She had an idea about going out to the park again, and playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

One day, a new car came to town. His name was Slowly. Slowly was not fast like Speedy. He had no money to make him go fast. The other cars did not want to play with Slowly. This made Slowly very sad.

"No, it's mine!" Ben says. He pulls the car back from Lily's hand.

One day, they go to visit grandpa with their mom. They knock on the door. Grandpa opens it and smiles. He hugs them and says, "Hello, my little ones. I'm so happy to see you. Come in, come in."

Timmy thought that sounded fine. He asked Sally if they could have a wedding too. Sally said yes, but they had to promise to always be best friends. They made their promises and had a little ceremony in the backyard. 

"Can we keep him?" Lily asks.

The doll said, "Are you sure? If you shrink, you might not be able to go back to your normal size."

One night, Amy and her mom were having so much fun with their silly song that neither of them noticed that it was getting dark outside. Just then, a big, crazy thunderbolt echoed outside. 

"What's a blackout?" Lily asked.

One day, Mira goes to the market with her mom. She sees many things there. She sees fruits, she sees flowers, she sees bread. She also sees vegetables. She sees carrots, she sees potatoes, she sees tomatoes. She likes vegetables. She likes to eat them and she likes to sing about them.

The dad said sternly, "Will! What are you doing? You can't remove the wheel from the car!"

She took the Lego, and mixed it with the jellybeans and paint. She played around for hours, and she made a very cool surprise.

From that day on, he always kept track of the time and made sure to obey his mom. He also remembered to enjoy his playtime and all the delicious treats it brought.
Once upon a time there was a little girl named Tess. She was three years old. Every day, Tess would go out to the park to play.

The little girl was so happy that she had found something special in the patch, she decided to take the caterpillar home with her. She carefully picked it up and gave it a cuddle.

"Hello my beautiful girl, it's so nice to see you!", he said. Jill ran towards her grandpa and hugged him tightly. Grandpa looked at her and said, "I have something special for you, my dear".

The zebra started to get very mad. He didn't like having some big orange thing in his meadow. He started charging at the wildebeest, trying to make it go away.

A man who works at the station sees them. He is wearing a hat and a whistle. He yells, "Hey, you can't be here! This is a dangerous place. You have to go back to the sidewalk. The train is coming soon."

The voice answered, "Well, Joy, this notebook can help you reach your dream. Turn the page and you'll see how."

The monkey was happy that he could send the box to his cousin. He was also happy that he learned how to weigh things. From that day on, the monkey and the elephant played together and learned new things every day.
Once upon a time, there was a little birdie who wanted to fly high in the sky. The birdie flew and flew until it saw a big cliff. The birdie was scared because the cliff was very high and it looked uncomfortable to fly over it. 

"Yes we can Harper!" her mom said. They gathered all the ingredients for the cake and began to mix them together. When the cake batter was finished, Harper scooped into bowls and added a few drops of ink to make it colorful. 

"No, it's my turn, Ben!" Lily said. She hugged the toy dog and stuck out her tongue.

Jack smiled and said, "Sure! What can I do for you?"

Lily pointed at the mirror and said, "A scary face!"

One day, Bob wandered too far from home and he got lost. He was very scared, but he didn't know what to do.

"Wow, Tommy! You're doing a great job," said mommy.

The friends had an amazing time playing in the spray. It was the best day ever, and they will always remember it.
John was hungry and frustrated. He wanted a pizza, but he had no money. He looked sadly out the window and saw a man walking on the street, holding two pizzas. John waved to the man. The man smiled and waved back. He came up to John's window and offered him one of the pizzas. John was so happy. He said thank you and smiled. He waved goodbye to the man and ran off to eat his pizza. He was so happy and his tummy felt full.
Lola and her mum were walking along the beach. Suddenly, Lola stared at an orange image in the sand. It looked like an orange butterfly! She bent down and touched it gently with her finger. Suddenly, it moved! It was a real orange butterfly, fluttering its wings. Lola smiled and watched in wonder as the butterfly flew away.

Lily felt sorry and ashamed. She knew she had done something wrong. She took off the bracelet and gave it back to Sara.

Suddenly, Tom's dog, Spot, came running into the room. Spot wagged his tail and bumped into the tower of blocks. The blocks fell down with a crash! Tom and Max looked at each other and then at the mess. They smiled and started to build again. They knew they could always have fun together, no matter what happened.
Once upon a time, in a small house, there lived an old monster. He was big and had many colors on his body. The old monster was sad because he had no friends to play with.

Lila had an idea. She held the ball in front of her face and looked at the sun. She saw the ball sparkle and glow with different colors.

"Oh, no, what happened?" she asks.

Emma smiled and replied, "Muy bien, gracias. You're so smart, Lily!" 

Lily's mommy came outside and picked her up. She told Lily that everything was going to be okay and that she needed to relax. They went inside and mommy put a band-aid on Lily's knee. After that, they sat down and watched the weather on TV. They saw that it was going to be sunny and warm for the rest of the day. Lily felt happy and she smiled. She was glad that she could relax and enjoy the nice weather with her mommy. The end.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to stack blocks and make tall towers. One day, she was playing with her blocks when her little brother came in. 

Lucy went to her mom and asked, "Mom, can I open the pink package on the table?" Her mom said, "Yes, but first observe what is around it. Is there a name on it?" Lucy looked and saw her sister's name, Lily, on the package.

They sit on a blanket and drink orange juice and eat orange cookies. They share with the pine tree. They say thank you to Anna's mom. They are happy. They are friends.
Lily and Max were friends who liked to play with blocks. They could build towers, bridges, and houses with their blocks. One day, they decided to make a network with their blocks. A network was a lot of blocks that were connected by other blocks.

Anna and the baby kangaroo had a wonderful time together. They shared stories and drawings and laughs. They hugged and kissed each other goodbye. Anna promised to come back and visit them again. She felt happy and grateful. She had found a friend.
Sara and Tom are playing in the kitchen. They see many dishes on the table. Some dishes are clean and some dishes are dirty. Sara wants to help mom and dad. She picks up a clean dish and puts it in the cupboard.

Max felt bad and said, "I'm sorry, Lily. Let's build a bigger and better castle together!" 

When the car was fixed, Tim felt happy again. He played with his car and made sure to be gentle so it wouldn't break. Tim knew that even when things were hard or sad, his mom would always be there to help him.
Once upon a time, a little boy named Tim went outside to look at the moon. The moon was big and round in the sky. Tim thought it looked like a fragile ball, ready to break if someone touched it.

The lady went to a shop and bought some blocks and pieces. She brought them home and put them together to make a structure. Everyone was amazed at how tall it was! It was so big that it almost touched the sky!

Mommy said, "Yes, you can. Just remember to be careful, and never go too far!"

Their mom hears them. She is looking for them. She sees the hole. She runs to it. She calls their names.

One day, he sees a big hole in the yard. He thinks it is a good place to park his truck. He runs to the hole with his truck. He puts his truck in the hole and smiles. He thinks his truck is safe and happy.

Lily got bored waiting, so she started to play with some toys. But then, she accidentally knocked over a toy and it broke. The store owner got angry and said, "You need to be more careful!" Lily felt sad and scared.

Mom gave them the envelope. She said it was for both of them. She said grandma loved them both. She said they could share the card and the sticker.

One day, Sam wanted to call his grandma. He reached into his pocket and pulled out a phone. He knew how to use it to call his grandma.

Tom and Mia are sad. They don't want to destroy their castle. They say, "But mom, we were having fun! We made a napkin castle! Can we keep it, please?"

So the brown dog showed her how to kick the pink ball and they played together until the sky turned night.
One day, a tall girl was walking outside. She saw a banana lying on the ground and said, “Oh! I believe this is a special banana.� So the girl decided to pick it up and take it home.

So Larry ran out to the store. He found the perfect bricks.

The two friends were so happy. The butterfly fluttered around them and then flew away. The friends learn that there was nothing to be scared of.
Once upon a time there was a little girl named Emma. Outside, the sky was grey and gloomy. Emma was feeling sad.

They make a lot of noise and Mom hears them. She comes to the living room and sees them fighting over the cushion.

Mark followed the rabbit, determined to make sure it wouldn’t get lost in the forest. The rabbit stopped at a bush and the curious Mark moved closer to see what was under it.

When she was finished, Tilly stood back and admired her work. The ground was so clean and tidy. Tilly was so proud of herself. She gave herself a big hug to celebrate. 

They both cried and cried, until their mom came home. She heard them and ran to the bathroom. She saw the locked door and the key in the sink. She was angry and worried. She used a tool to open the door and found Tom and Lily sobbing.

"I don't know, Anna. What is three minus one?" Ben asks.

Lily pushed the button, and suddenly, the yummy ice cream truck went away very fast. Lily and her mommy did not get any ice cream. They both felt sad. Lily learned that she should listen to her mommy and not touch things she shouldn't.
One day, a little boy named Tim went to the park with his mom. They saw a man giving out tickets. Tim asked his mom, "What are the tickets for?" His mom said, "They are for a fun ride, but we don't have any."

The girl set to work, arranging them into shapes and designs. Soon, she had created the most beautiful pattern that she had ever seen. She looked up and grinned, showing off her lovely creation.

The cloud asked, "Do you want to be my friend?"

The nurse took the child away and the child never came back. It was a bad ending.
Once there was a little girl named Milly. She was 3 years old and liked playing outside. One day, Milly was walking in the woods and found a huge blue bush. She was excited, so she wanted to pick off some of the leaves. Suddenly, Milly heard a noise, so she decided to leave.

The robot and the boy played together a lot after that. They went on many adventures, always reversing and laughing. They were the best of friends!
Once upon a time there was a little girl called Sam. Sam was very brave, but she was also very small.

The next day, Lily went outside to check on her plant. But she noticed something strange. Her plant had shrunk! She asked her mommy, "Why did my plant get smaller?" Her mommy explained, "Sometimes plants need gentle care. Maybe you watered it too much." From then on, Lily was more careful with her plant and it grew big and strong again.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She had a cozy armchair in her room where she loved to sit and read her books. One day, her mom came in and said, "Lily, it's time to go to the park!"

The daughter was so happy to have her own apron like Mommy. She felt proud and excited to show it off.
Once upon a time there was a little girl named Jane. She was three years old and very curious. Every day she would explore the big wide world around her.

The fish kept jumping in the air and making loud noises. He jumped and laughed until he was so tired he could barely keep his eyes open. Todd waved goodbye to the giant fish and sailed back to shore. 

Lily and her mommy played in the creek for a long time, splashing and laughing. After a while, Lily's mommy said, "It's time to go home and bathe before dinner." Lily didn't want to leave the creek, but she knew she had to listen to her mommy.

One day, her mom gave her a special present - a small cactus! The girl was so excited she could barely contain her joy. She hugged the cactus, ran around with it and showed it to all her friends.

Sally said, "Hi Bobby, can I borrow your cage? I want to show my friends your pretty home." Bobby said, "Yes, you can borrow my cage, but please bring it back soon. I like my home."

Next they saw a bluebird perched on a tree branch. It sang a song as they discussed the different habits of birds. It was amazing how much Jose already knew about nature.

The little bird had improved the branch and the tree was very happy. From then on, the branch was known as the most beautiful branch in the world.
Molly and her family were sitting in the living room. Her mom and dad were on the couch and Molly was sitting on the floor. They were looking around the room, wondering what to do.

John said to Sarah, "Would you like to try some of my popcorn? It tastes so yummy!" Sarah smiled and said,"Yes please!" They both laughed and enjoyed eating popcorn together. 

Unfortunately, the oil had made Furry very sick. As the hours went by, he felt worse and worse. Furry sadly passed away surrounded by the forest he had been so excited about exploring.
One day, a vendor went to the store to buy things. The store had different types of things inside, such as candy, toys, and books. The vendor was very excited to find something special. 
But, when the vendor went to the checkout line, they realized they didn't have enough money to pay for the things they wanted.

Bob and the caterpillar smiled at each other. “My name is Twitch,� said the caterpillar.

The bear happily ate his muffin as he made his way back home. He had a wonderful day and was so thankful to have received a yummy snack from the little boy.
Once upon a time there was a little girl called Lucy who loved to hug. One day she went to the park and saw a structure that was soft. She ran over to it and gave it a big hug.

When she opened the box, the little girl was so happy! Inside was a brand new toy that she could play with. She was so thankful to her parents for giving her such a creative and special gift.
Once upon a time, there was a girl named Susie. She liked playing outside with her green friends who lived near her house. Susie and her friends liked to go on adventures and play together, but one day something strange happened.

Ben and Lily looked at the root. They realized it was a carrot. They felt silly. They didn't know carrots grew in the ground.

His mom was so impressed with Timmy's drawing that she put it on the fridge for everyone to see. Timmy was very happy and felt like a real artist. From that day on, Timmy loved to use his crayons to draw all sorts of things.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to play with her hoop in the park. She would roll it fast and jump through it. 

Jane was nice and decided to forgive Timmy. She knew Timmy did not mean to take Fluffy away. Jane and Timmy became friends. They played with Fluffy together. They all lived happily ever after.
Once upon a time, there was a famous dog named Spot. Spot loved to play with his favorite toy, a ball. One day, Spot's ball broke. He was very sad.

Their mom hears them and comes to the living room. She sees them fighting over the doll.

Mom laughs and takes a picture of them. She thinks they are very cute and funny. She joins them and kneels too. She pretends to eat the pizza with them. They all giggle and have fun.

"Mia, look! A puddle! Let's go out and splash!" Tom says.

Spot wanted to invite Tim to play with him, so he ran up to Tim and said, "Hi, I am Spot. Do you want to play with me?" Tim smiled and said, "Yes, I want to play with you, Spot!"

Mommy said, "Yes, you can, baby. That butterfly is harmless and won't hurt you. But remember, don't touch the yellow things that don't look harmless."

He was surprised to find the apple’s owner was a woodpecker. The woodpecker thanked the little boy for getting its apple. 

John promised he would come back one day. "I will send you a postcard when I get to my new home,� he said.

Bobby thought it was a great idea. They went to the nearby field and started gathering hay. "We can add the hay to the big box," said Bobby. 

Sally followed close behind him, running as fast as she could. As they ran, the zip went zig zagging through the air and it looked like it was flying.

However, in the end, he couldn't finish the task. He was so disappointed and sad. He had worked so hard and still couldn't succeed. 

He headed back to his boat with a smile on his face and the answer to his question. He knew the answer was inside him all along.
John and Jane had a magazine. It was very impressive. They looked at the pictures and read all the words. John liked the cars in the magazine. Jane liked the cartoons. They both liked the stories about animals. 

Mama smiled and said, "That's great to hear. Enjoy your time here."

They both approached the vehicle and saw a man inside. He asked them why they were looking for him. Sarah told him that she wanted to find out what it was.
 
The man smiled and said, "It's a UFO! I'm here to explore the world, just like you two!"

He then heard the voice again, "You must choose one of the paths, clown." 

"I wish I could race too," said the little penguin.

<INSTRUCTION> What Anna and Bella do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Anna and Bella laughed, knowing that the table in the garden was a very special place. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Big Red drove up to the wheel, and stopped. Then Big Red opened his door, and the driver, who was a small rabbit, popped out. The rabbit looked at the wheel and said, "I want that wheel!" Then the rabbit hopped onto the wheel, and the wheel rolled away! Big Red ran quickly after the wheel, but the wheel was too fast.

Mama: "Oh, sweetheart. Do you want to forgive your friend?"

Lily smiled and said, "OK, Ben. I'll try to play with you in the dark. But can we also play in the light sometimes?"

The king waved goodbye, and he left. Leo and Lily ran back to their home, where Mom and Dad were waiting for them. They told them what had happened, and they hugged them. They were happy, and they were safe. They thanked the king, and they thanked each other. They learned to be careful, and to listen to their family.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Tim. He had a special uniform that he loved to wear. One day, he had an idea. He wanted to display his uniform for everyone to see. But first, he needed to find a hidden place to set up his surprise.

They get a trophy. It is shiny and big. They want to show it to their families. They run to the car. Anna sees her mom. She waves and smiles. She holds the trophy high.

Spot thought and thought about helping Fluffy, but he was too lazy to move. The sun went down and it was dark. Fluffy was still waiting for Spot to help her. In the end, they both went to sleep without any cherries.
Once upon a time, there was a clown named Bobo. Bobo was a funny and happy clown. He liked to make kids laugh and play. Bobo had a big red nose and big shoes.

His mom laughed and said, "Yes, it does look funny, doesn't it?"

One day, Tim's friend, Sam, came to play. Sam saw the cord and said, "Tim, your room is so messy! Let's clean it up and then we can play."

"Timmy, what are you doing with that axe?" asked his mom. 

Sara and Ben cry. They run to the door and try to open it. But the door is locked. They forgot to take the key. They are trapped in the room with True. They scream for help. But no one hears them. True is too loud. He says, "You can't escape. You are mine. I will play with you forever."
Sam and Ben are friends. They like to play with cars and trucks. Sam has many cars and trucks. He is rich. Ben has only one car. He is not rich.

They set up the game and soon it was time to play. Joe was amazed! It was so much fun. He kept playing until bedtime.

Her mom said, "You are very thoughtful, Anna. You care about Luna a lot. She is lucky to have you."

The group laughed and then ran after the bird. Everyone took turns trying to slap the bird, but none of them
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Mary. Mary was very naughty. One day, Mary was walking in a wild wood. She felt very curious and she wanted to explore. 

Robbie got up on his hind legs and asked the peanut tree if he could grab a few peanuts. But the peanut tree was very strict and wouldn't let him have any peanuts. Robbie begged and pleaded with the tree but nothing worked. 

Tommy felt happy and rested. He closed his eyes and enjoyed the peace and quiet of the tree. He knew that playing with his toy car could wait until tomorrow.
One day there was a little girl. She was fancying she would take a bath. So, she got all ready and asked her mummy for a bath. Her mummy was very happy and laughed in a funny way.  She went into the bathroom and saw lots of shiny and colourful bottles. 

So, Elsie started walking. She skipped and sang until she came to the hedge. The hedge looked so tall and wide, it seemed like it would go on forever! So Elsie did something naughty: she decided to scatter some of the pretty leaves from the hedge.

Sara smiled and thanked them both. She bit into the apple and tasted its juicy and delicious flavor. She was happy and proud. She had a great day at the park. She learned something new and got a wonderful gift. She hoped to come back again and see the farmer and the apples. She hoped to share them with her friends. She hoped to sing, draw and read more. She was a gifted girl.
Tom and Sue are friends. They like to play on the farm. They see many animals on the farm. They see cows, pigs, sheep, and horses.

But then, the wind blows hard and the clouds start to move. Some of the clouds get smaller and some get bigger. Some of the clouds join together and some separate.

Jack was very excited to find this cloth. He asked his mom what it was and she told him it was a quilt. Jack asked his mom if he could take it home, and she said yes. 

Mommy sighed and hugged them. She said, "I love you too, Tom and Anna. But you have to be more careful and listen to me. The ornaments were very important to me and I can't get them back. You have to learn to respect other people's things. Now go to your room and think about what you did. Maybe later we can talk more and make some new ornaments together."

Lily said, "Mommy, look at the pretty flowers! I see pink ones and yellow ones and purple ones too!" 

Excitedly she pointed it out to Mummy and Mummy agreed. There was one more thing that Mummy suggested. She said that it would be great if Lizzy could name the flower. 

Mama butterfly said yes, but only if he was careful. He promised he would be careful, so Mama butterfly let him go. He was so excited! The black butterfly flew all around, visiting different places and meeting new friends.

He said goodbye to the old owl, thanked him for the letter and left the old forest, fully healed!
Once upon a time, there was a nice girl called Amy. One day, Amy was playing in the garden and she saw a puddle. She wanted to jump in it, so she took off her shoes and socks and she stepped into the puddle.

"Please, mom, can I have some cake?" he asked.

Amy held the shiny star and said, "I wish to be the most honest girl in the world." The star twinkled and her wish came true. From that day on, Amy always told the truth, no matter what.

"Wow, Granny! This looks amazing," said Jake, pointing at the balloons and streamers.

The bear was still sleepy, so he put the card away and went back to his bed. He closed his eyes and rested until he felt better.

John smiled and ran over to the sport. He had so much fun playing and running around. He even got a little wet! John had a great time playing his sport and mom was happy he stayed safe.
Once upon a time there was a little girl. Her name was Lucy and she was very proud. Every day she would run and play in the sunshine.

"Hi, kids. What are you doing?" their dad asked.

Sam waved goodbye to the people in the store and went home, feeling happy and content.
Once upon a time there was a thin man who was always surfing on the beach. He loved to look out on the ocean and watch the big and small waves. One day a young girl, who was three years old, stopped and watched the thin man surf.

Tim said, "What smells so spicy?" 

"Thank you, Mia. It looks yummy." Tom says. He takes the will. He bites it. He smiles. It is yummy.

One day, Tom sees a lemon on the table. He is curious and he picks it up. He smells it and it smells good. He thinks it might be like an orange, which he likes to eat. He takes a bite of the lemon and makes a face. It is sour and it hurts his mouth. He spits it out and cries.

The bear was very happy because he always knew that his special place was there for him if he ever needed it. He could go there and find comfort when he felt overwhelmed by the noise. Thanks to his special escape, the bear never had to feel alone or scared in the noisy forest.
Once upon a time, there was a young mouse who lived in a big house. One day, the young mouse was feeling very sad because he had lost his cheese. He began to cry, when suddenly he saw a friend coming down the stairs.

Ducky and Froggy swam back and forth under the bridge all day. They made big splashes and laughed and played. When it was time to go home, Ducky was so happy. He had a great day with his friend and he wasn't scared anymore.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. One day, she went for a walk in the forest. She saw a big log and sat on it. Suddenly, she heard a mysterious noise. She felt scared, but then she saw a friendly squirrel. The squirrel came to meet her and they became friends. They played together and had fun. From that day on, Lily visited the forest every day to meet her new friend.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She had a large jar of marbles that she loved to play with. One day, Lily's friend Jack came over to play. Jack saw the jar of marbles and asked if he could play with them. Lily said yes, but only if Jack promised to be careful.

Jack bent down and wanted to try the cocoa, but he had to be careful. He wanted to make sure he had just the right balance of sweet and sour. He tasted the cocoa and it was just perfect.

One day, Lily heard a loud noise. It was the alarm. It was beeping and flashing. Lily was scared. She did not know what to do. She ran to the door and looked outside. She saw smoke and fire. She saw people running and shouting. She saw a big red truck with a siren.

Lily thought for a moment. She wanted to make the story happy.

When they arrived at their destination, they both had a wonderful time. They explored the area and looked at all the amazing sights. They were very happy to be together. 

One day he saw something darting across the ground. He hopped closer to get a better look. It was a tiny flea! He had never seen a flea before and he wanted to find out more.

"Yes, Timmy," his mom replied. "Being kind is always important." 

They hug Mom and Dad. They thank them for taking them to the park. They say they love them.

The guard said he had been watching them and knew that Ben had taken something from the port. Ben had taken money, and he was in a lot of trouble. The guard said he had to take Ben to jail. 

The next day, Lucy brought the violin home to show her mum. Her mum said that if Lucy wanted to learn to play the violin she had to practice every day. Lucy happily agreed and so mum found her the best teacher.

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan learn? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She learnt that she could prevent getting too hot by playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Susie had so much fun that day playing with her bubble and watching it shine in the sun. After several hours, the sun disappeared and the bubbles began to disappear too. But Susie did not worry, she knew that the sun was dependable and would be back tomorrow.
Once there was a girl and her name was Lily. She was only three years old and she was very curious.

"Don't be afraid, Lily," Ben said. "They are just noises and lights. They can't hurt us. We are safe inside our house. And we have each other."

Timmy was happy to see the little tree, but he was worried that it might get hurt. So, he asked his mom if they could cover the little tree with a blanket to protect it from the wind and rain. 

Sara and Ben agreed and helped the lady sit in the wagon. They pulled her slowly along the sidewalk. The lady laughed and waved her hat.

Soon, Tim and Sam felt sick. Their stomachs hurt a lot. They cried out, "Oh no! What did we eat?" They did not know that the apples were bad apples.

Sue opened the cabinet and found a big, rare toy. It was a pretty doll with a shiny dress. Sue was very happy to find the doll. She played with the doll all day long.

The battery was so happy that it mixed the glue and the water and made something so special. From then on, the battery was known as the brilliant battery!
Once upon a time, there was a bright bus. The bus was full of happy people, all wearing big smiles. One of the people on the bus was a little boy. He had bright eyes and bushy hair. He always smiled and was very friendly.

Her mommy said, "Yes, Lily, it's beautiful. If you catch it, I'll give you a reward." 

One day, while the girl was playing, she saw a big, juicy apple on the ground. She picked it up and wanted to eat it right away. But it was too big! So she ran into the kitchen and asked her mom, "Please can I have a piece of the apple?" Her mom smiled and cut the apple into pieces. The girl took a bite and it was so tasty!

The lion thanked the doctor for the magic powder and then, with a hearty "roar", he bounded off into the distant forest, free and strong, ready to enjoy the rest of his day.
Once upon a time there was a girl named Green. Green was a sweet, kind girl who cared for everyone she met. One day, Green set out on an adventure to explore the world. She hopped onto a big, white bus and went down a long, twisty road.

"Oops, it didn't work," said Ben. "We need something stronger."

Lila reached the top of the hill and saw the old house. It was burning and making loud noises. She saw flames and sparks and smoke everywhere. She felt hot and scared. She wanted to go back, but she didn't know how. She looked for Ben, but he was not there. She was alone.

Soon, the cake was ready to bake. Sara and her mom put it in the oven and set the timer. Then they went to the living room, where the guests were waiting. Sara saw many faces, some familiar, some not. She felt shy again. She hid behind her mom's leg.

Anna feels angry. She wants her mom to be proud. She wants her mom to see her trophy. She wants her mom to hear her voice. She throws the trophy on the ground. It breaks. It makes a loud noise.

Max said, “Sure, it’s really easy. Let’s practice!� and he held up two fingers. “Two plus two is?�

Lisa was starting to get really frustrated. She went to ask her mum for help.

The foxes were looking at him curiously. He told them he was on an adventure. 

The next day, the elf came back with a big smile on his face. He said, "I have a very special joke for you, Leo. It will make you laugh." 

The octopus was afraid, but it soon realized that the people were actually helping it. The people unpacked the box and set the octopus free. The octopus felt excited! It was so happy to finally explore all the new places around it.

Mum: "Wow, Sam, that's incredible! You found this in the sand?"

Later that day, she saw some kids getting on the bus. They looked happy and excited. Lily wanted to go with them, but she knew she couldn't. She felt sad and wished she could decorate the bus with them.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to play outside in the park with her friends. One day, they found a big slide and they all took turns sliding down it. Lily loved the feeling of the wind in her hair as she slid down the slide.

When Molly arrived, she saw a big surprise rainbow arching over the floor. Everyone together welcomed the rainbow with shouts and cheers. Molly realized that she had conquered something she could have only dreamed of and felt an immense sense of pride. "The rough floor was worth it," she thought.
Once upon a time, there was a pig. He was very friendly. Every day, he would wander around looking for something to eat.

Sara and Ben smile and say, "Sure, this is copper. We find it in the park. We make jewelry with it. Do you want to try?"

Mum: "OK, be careful when you go to the open field, ok?"

Sam thanked the bunny and said, "Anytime!"

He went to the playground with his friends. He saw a girl. She was wearing his yellow scarf. He knew it was his. He saw his name on it. He felt happy. He found his yellow scarf. He ran to the girl. He said, "That is my scarf. Give it back."

Suddenly, the lady in charge asked everyone to number themselves. Lily's mommy helped her count to three and they raised their hands. The lady smiled and said they were done with the meeting. Lily was so happy to hear that! She ran outside and played with her friends in the park.

So they sat downstairs, snuggled up together on the sofa, and waited for the sunrise. When they saw it, they were both filled with wonder. What a beautiful and valuable sight it was!
Once upon a time, a long lion lived in a big forest. He loved to run around, climb trees and eat yummy snacks.

Then Daddy had an idea. He said, "Let's play a game. I'll count to three and on three you will forget everything you were thinking."

"Maybe he is nice. He gave us his ball." Tom says.

Then she realized something. This was her very own room. It was her special room filled with her own toys. It was even more amazing to her than the open door.

Suddenly the bow began to grow bigger and bigger until it became the biggest, most beautiful bow Mabel had ever seen!

Bap knelt down alongside one of the puddles and watched as the raindrops made tiny circles on the surface of the water. He said out loud, "I can make a puddle too!" so he picked up a stick and made a big circle in the dirt next to the puddle.

One day, they found a big jug in the shed. It was empty and had a handle and a spout. Sam had an idea. He said to Mia, "Let's fill the jug with water and use it as a fountain. We can be lions and tigers who drink from the fountain."

Mom replied, "It is a special candle, it smells like apple pie! Doesn't it smell nice?" Jack smiled and said, "Yes, it smells great!" 

"Wow, look at that leopard!" Tom said. "It is so big and strong!"

"Tom, Lily, what are you doing?" their mom asked, coming into the living room. She saw the small toys on the floor and frowned. "Did you break your toys?"

She got on the swing and her dad pushed her gently. She felt the wind in her hair and the sun on her face. She smiled and laughed.

But Tom did not listen. He waited until the farmer was busy. Then he sneaked to the new horse. He put a saddle and a bridle on the horse. He climbed on the horse. He said, "Giddy up!"

<INSTRUCTION> What idea did Joan have? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She had an idea about going out to the park again, and playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

They went on the slide again and had fun. Lily and Anna were happy.
Lily and Ben are friends. They like to play in the yard. They have a ball, a bike, and a doll.

The bunny tried to meet new friends, but they sadly ignored her. She realised that they didn't want to be her friend and it made her feel sad.

Tim throws the ball hard. He hopes to strike the box and take off a strip. But the ball flies too high and lands on the roof.

Jack thought for a second and then shouted, “I don’t know! Why?�

Louie was powerful and brave, so he said yes. He swam as fast as he could to help the little girl. He used all his power to move the kite down from the tree. 

Grandma smiled. "Come on in and find out," she said. So Amy walked into the room and the first thing she saw was a toy gun. It was pink and had sparkles on it. 

At first he was scared, but then he saw something cute swimming around in the water. It was a small frog!

One day he met a little girl who was only three years old. She was so sweet and kind. The prince thought it would be fun to pick on her.

As they were walking, Emily noticed a big, round number: zero. Emily's Mommy smiled at her and said: "Emily, let's watch the zero carefully."

The rat ran towards them. It bit Tom's leg. It scratched Lily's face. They screamed and cried. They tried to run away. But the rat was faster. It chased them around the room. It wanted to hurt them more.

"It's okay, Lily. You have to be careful when you pick flowers," her mommy said.

The big boat was happy and played with the small boat and the other boats. They all had a great time. The big boat was not jealous anymore. It was happy to have new friends to play with. And they all lived happily ever after.
Once upon a time, there was a loyal dog named Buddy. Buddy loved to play with his best friend, a little boy named Tim. They played all day in the sun, running and laughing together.

The mixer waved to the clouds and asked if they would give it some water. The clouds did and the mixer had everything it needed. The mixer then waved its arms around and mixed all the things together.

The dog nodded and started to stir the mixture. He helped his owner until the jam was finished. 

The owl examined the bird's wing and gave it some medicine. After a few days, the bird's wing felt better and it could fly again. The bird was happy and grateful to the cat and the owl. From that day on, the bird sang even more beautifully than before.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Timmy. Timmy liked to play with his toys, especially his toy cars. One day, Timmy's friend Billy came over to play. Billy had a toy weapon that he wanted to show Timmy. Timmy got nervous when he saw the weapon because he didn't like scary things.

"Whoa there Sammy! What are you doing?" asked Joe.

One day, it was raining and Anna could not go outside. She was miserable. She wanted to play with the daisies and Lily, but they were wet and muddy. She looked out of the window and saw the daisies drooping in the rain. She felt sad for them.

Later that day, Lily went to the park with her mom. She saw a cute puppy and wanted to pet it. The puppy was so adorable and acted very friendly. Lily had a great day playing and having fun!
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Timmy. Timmy loved to play with his toys all day long. He never wanted to share his toys with his friends. One day, Timmy's mom explained to him that sharing is caring. She told him that it's important to trade toys with his friends so everyone can have fun.

The kind woman said, "You can stay here tonight and then tomorrow you can keep climbing and reach your goal".

They are both curious and scared. They decide to carry the box to a bright chamber. They hold the box together and walk up the stairs. The box is heavy and hard. They are tired and sweaty.

"Hey, little Jack!" it said. "Take me with you on your adventures!"

"Let's go on the trail!" Anna says.

Lily was happy her mom was going to help her. "Thank you, Mommy," said Lily. They both started picking up the beans and putting them back in the bowl. 

She pressed the big red button and started to record. She spoke into the shell and told all her thoughts. She spoke about being kind and thoughtful to all the animals in the sea.

<INSTRUCTION> What idea did Joan have? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She had an idea about going out to the park again, and playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

When Cindy told her family the news they didn't recognize the problem. But then they noticed something even more strange: the milk was gone too!

Lila and Ben were happy too. They had made a new friend. They played with the fox until it was time to go home. They hugged the fox and said goodbye.

Ben and Jen go to the barn, where Molly is waiting. They say hello to Molly and pet her soft fur. They give her the carrot, and she eats it with a loud crunch. Then they climb on her back, one in front of the other. Grandpa helps them with a rope to hold on to.

"Me too," Max said. "Maybe we can ask her to play with us and share her doll."

Tom asked his mum and dad if he could play right away. They said yes, so Tom went to the computer and switched it on. Suddenly, a big screen came up with lots of lights and colours. Tom was so excited, he started to yell in delight. 

One day Frank's best friend Sam the snail came to visit him. Sam asked, "What's wrong Frank?"

From that day on, Tweety always remembered the oasis and the special friends she made there. She also remembered the lesson she learned about being different and getting along. And she lived happily ever after. The end.
Tommy and his dad were on their way to the park. Dad was carrying a big tube in his hand. 

And that is how Max and Bob celebrated Bob's birthday with the special octopus. They had so much fun together!
Molly was very excited, as she was ready to explore the maze. She was with her parents, holding their hands and wondering what secrets the maze held. Molly's parents had been talking about mazes for days and Molly was eager to see one in real life.

At the park, Tom and his friends saw a big pitch. They all wanted to play on it. Tom had to choose who would play on the pitch first. He thought it was a hard job, but he did not want to be stupid.

Grandma went to investigate and found that the old clock had stopped working. She knew just what to do. She fixed the clock and the ghost disappeared. From then on, Lily loved the clock even more and would always ask, "Grandma, can we weigh the clock again?"
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to draw and color with her crayons. One day, she drew a picture of a seal. It was very creative, with lots of colors and patterns.

Tom and Mia tell Mom their story. They both blame each other. They both want Mom to take their side.

"This is not fair," Lily said. "Who put this here?"

Tom was very happy. He loved looking at the fish in the tank. He kept going back to look at the tank every day. He even asked his parents if he could get his own tank. They said yes, and now Tom has a tank of his own and can look at the fish whenever he wants.
George and his mom were at the store and George wanted a special bottle. His mom said no because they couldn't afford it. This made George very upset and he started to cry. 

The little girl was so excited and started to shout. She ran to the popper and said, "This is so pretty! I must have it!" 

Grandma heard him cry. She put down her knitting and came to him. She saw his tears and felt sorry for him. She picked him up and held him. She said, "Don't cry, Tommy. I love you. Mom and dad will be back soon. Do you want to watch TV with me? Maybe we can find something funny to make you laugh."

The little girl was so excited. She played and sang a beautiful song that filled the air with happiness. Even the birds stopped to listen! 

At the end of the day, Billy gave Timmy back his shirt and thanked him for being such a good friend. Timmy felt even more proud that he could help his friend and they both went home happy. From that day on, Timmy always remembered how good it felt to offer something to someone who needed it.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Timmy. Timmy loved to play golf with his dad. One day, they went to the golf course together. Timmy hit the ball very far, but it went into the pond. Timmy was sad.

<INSTRUCTION> What Anna and Bella do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Anna and Bella laughed, knowing that the table in the garden was a very special place. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

The white screw thought for a moment.

"Maybe there is a monster in the box," Ben says.

Mike looked down, feeling guilty. Then his dad continued, "Let me show you something that can help you play with lumber without the saw."

The lady did not listen. She started to scream and wave her arms. She shouted for help. She said the twins were trying to rob her and attack her.

He asked the lady, "Can I play with them?" She smiled and said, "Of course! You can do anything you want with them." Dan smiled and thanked her.

Lucy ran to them and asked her parents: "What are these?" 
Her father smiled and said: "These are magical herbs." He pointed at one of them and said, "This one is called a 'gentle herb'. It has a special power."

Jim laughed and said, "Okay. I'll be back soon!" 

Sarah was very sad. She wanted to keep polishing her fan but she knew she could not disobey her mother. She had to put it away and never touch it again. The end.
Once upon a time, there was a bird who was very excited. She had been dreaming of a new home for a very long time. Finally, she had found a place to settle. She spread out her wings and flew up to the highest branch of a large tree.

One day, Bella woke up a bit grumpy. She rubbed her eyes and got out of bed. She looked around and saw something strange. There was a big mark on her wall!

"Look, Tom, this is a magic branch!" Sara says. "We can wear it like a crown and be the king and queen of the park!"

"Sure, he likes hugs. You're very sweet, Lily," the man said.

Sara and Ben smiled and said, "Yes, we can. We like to help you. We like to cook. We like to organize. We like to eat. We like everything."

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan learn? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She learnt that she could prevent getting too hot by playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

The child sat on the floor, watching them bicker. The child was too scared to get involved in the quarrel.

Anna and Ben are sad and mad. They say, "You are a bad man! You should not have a bad dog! You should keep him away from us!"

"I want to see the monkeys!" Lily said.

"Let's go on the slide!" Tom says.

The King and the elephant lived happily together in their palace, and everyone around them recognized that the King had made the right decision by raising the elephant.
Once there was a foolish rabbit who was always on the lookout for surprises. One day, he was hopping around in the grass when he spotted something shiny. He hopped closer and found that a big surprise was waiting for him- a big piece of meat! He couldn't believe it.

Joe was so excited! He had never heard of the game before. He asked his mom if it was fun. She smiled and said, "It's incredible! Everyone recommends it!"

His mom explained that chopping down trees was dangerous and that he could hurt himself. She suggested that he ask his dad for help instead. 

"Mom, why is there smoke?" John asked as he held his mom's hand tighter. 

When he got home, he opened the sack and saw all kinds of shiny things inside. John was so happy. He thanked the sand for giving him this wonderful treasure.

The duck understood and thanked the owl for his wisdom. After that, she was able to solve her problem with the power of honesty. From then on, she made sure to use her new knowledge whenever a problem arose.

Timmy said, "I found it first, so it should be mine!" 

They pull and tug at the car. They make a lot of noise. Mom hears them and comes to see what is wrong.

Her mom hugged her and kissed her. "Oh, Jenny, don't cry, it's okay, it's okay. You don't have to be sorry. You did a very nice thing, trying to fold the laundry for me. That was very sweet and thoughtful of you. I'm so proud of you."

“Oh no,� the dad said. “Our day is spoiled. We have to stay here until the tire is fixed.� 

"Of course, you can stay with me. You can play with something else. How about a book or a puzzle?" Mom said. She took out a book and a puzzle from her bag. They had pictures and words that Lily and Tom liked.

"Hey Timmy, what's wrong?" asked Billy.

Molly's dad said, "I have a joke about a squirrel."

The lawyer smiled and said, "You did it! Good job, little boat!" Then he waved goodbye and sailed away. 

<INSTRUCTION> What di Joan's mother say to her? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Her mother said, Joan, you must take a nap and prevent getting too hot. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Finally David's mother shouted for him to come back down. With a heavy heart, he let go of the string and the kite soon disappeared. He had created something magical.
John was very tired. He had worked all day. John was a delivery man and he was delivering pants. He took the pants to the store. He put the pants in a box and then put them in his truck.

The doctor asked the little boy to show her his hands and he slowly held them out. She examined them and said they looked healthy. The little boy felt a bit better and his mom smiled at him. He knew everything was going to be alright. 

<INSTRUCTION> What idea did Joan have? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She had an idea about going out to the park again, and playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

He stopped in one spot and looked around. He heard the birds chirping in the trees and the water lapping against the creek's banks. He listened to the sounds and then started to record them.

Spot flew around for hours and he couldn't believe how fun it was. When he was done flying, Spot took off his belt and put it away.

He looked out over the water and saw a big sail. It was white and beautiful. He loved it! His dad said, "Let's go and explore!" 

"Okay, you can try it, but be careful. It is very delicate," she said.

The bird smiled back and flew away. Then, a special magical thing happened in the field: the sun broke through the clouds and the field was shining bright. Allie was happy knowing that love and forgiveness can make everything better.
There was once a little fish who lived in the deep blue sea. She swam around and sang with the fish and sharks. But one day, something changed: the water was growing darker. The fish couldn't see very far and soon she grew scared.

"Look, Tom, berries!" Lily said. "Let's pick some and eat them. They look yummy."

It decided to give to someone who needed it. It looked around and soon found a little girl. Her name was Joy and she was 3 years old. She had no money, so the penny thought she would be a good person to include. 

Everywhere he looked, he could see animals and stars in the sky. After a while he came across a big hill. He wanted to climb the hill but it was too steep. He tried and tried but he couldn't make it to the top. 

Sarah was upset. She wanted her soccer ball back. She called her mom to help her find it. Mom looked over the fence and saw the soccer ball. She then pulled it back over the fence to Sarah.

Tommy was frightened. He quickly stepped away from the door and said, "I'm sorry, I didn't mean any harm." But the old man was still angry. He opened the door and grabbed Tommy's arm. "I don't want you touching anything that belongs to me!" he said. Tommy started to cry. The old man finally let go and Tommy ran away. He never touched any door knobs again.
Once upon a time, there was an ugly anchor who was very lonely. He wanted to explore the world, but had no one to go with him. One day, he decided to pack his things and go on an adventure. 

<INSTRUCTION> What di Joan's mother say to her? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Her mother said, Joan, you must take a nap and prevent getting too hot. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

The girl nodded and gave it one more try. This time, with Mommy's help, she climbed to the top! She felt proud of herself and smiled.

As they were finishing their picnic, Lily's dad suddenly got up and started running towards a tree. Lily was confused, but then she saw a squirrel climbing up the tree. Her dad had brought some nuts for the squirrels, and now they were getting their reward. Lily was happy to see the squirrels getting their treat, and she realized that sometimes getting a little noisy can lead to something good.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to climb the stairs in her house, but one day she slipped and fell down. She hurt her leg and cried a lot. Her mom came to her and hugged her, saying "relax, it's going to be okay". 

The little girl and the pine tree danced together until the sun came up in the morning. They said goodbye to each other and the tree went back to sleep. But from then on, when the moon was full, the little girl would always look for the dancing pine tree to come back.
Once upon a time there was a fairy who loved being busy. She worked very hard to create the most beautiful cobwebs. She spent her days spinning her webs around the trees and spinning webs in the sky. Everywhere she flew, she left a sparkling cobweb behind.

"That's brilliant!" said her mommy. She tried to copy Mandy, and it was fun trying again and again until she could do the poses perfectly.

"Wow! It looks even more beautiful now!" Lily exclaimed.

As the sun began to set, Sam and the little bird said goodbye. Sam walked back to his warm home, feeling happy and loved. He had a new friend and a fun day.
Once upon a time, in a small house, there lived a smart little boy named Tim. Tim loved to play with his ball. He would throw the ball up and down, and catch it with his hands. Tim was very good at throwing the ball.

"It's going back to its home," Mommy said.

Tom and Lily were scared. They did not know they did something bad. They thought they were just playing. They started to cry. They said to their mom and dad:

"Let's put it in the oven and see what happens!" Lily said.

<INSTRUCTION> What idea did Joan have? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She had an idea about going out to the park again, and playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

One day, Rosie met a little bird who was sad. "Why are you sad, little bird?" Rosie asked. The bird said, "I tried to eat a spicy bug, but it was too hot for me." Rosie thought hard, then she had an idea. "Let's go find a sweet bug for you to eat instead!"

They skipped to the statue and touched its hat, its sword and its horse. They felt the cold metal and the rough stone. They laughed and said, "The statue is cool!"

One day, Tim went to the store with his mom. He saw the luxury toy car and said, "Mom, can I have that car? It is different from my other toys." His mom said, "No, Tim. We can't buy that car. It is too much money."

Now the fish felt much more comfortable. He was hidden underneath the weeds, and he could stay away from the hook. He was safe and happy now.
Once upon a time, there was a girl who could balance. She wanted to balance on the moon. So she climbed high, higher and highest until she reached the Moon. But it was hard! The moon was shiny and the air was harsh.

Suddenly, a wizard came out of the bushes and said "I'm using my shrinking potion. When I splash it on things, they shrink!"

Together, they looked for the chalk and finally found it under the couch. Lily was so happy and said, "Thank you, Mommy!" 

Her dad laughed and said, "No, but maybe we can play bury the flower every few weeks!" Sarah smiled and said, "Okay!"
Once upon a time, there was a charming little girl. She loved to explore her garden, where all sorts of animals, bugs and plants lived. One day, she ventured deeper into the garden and heard a funny sound. As she walked closer to investigate, a spirit appeared before her. The spirit gently said to the girl, “I’m here to give you a warning. Stop exploring this way or you may get into trouble.�
The girl was not scared of the spirit, she simply thought it was interesting to meet a new creature. “Thank you for the warning,� the girl replied, “but I like to explore. I’m not scared!�
The spirit smiled and replied, “I know you’re brave, but do be careful. I’d hate for anything bad to happen to such a charming young lady.� 
The girl smiled and nodded, but then the spirit vanished as quickly as it had appeared. The girl decided it was time to go back home, and from that day on she explored her garden with extra care.
Once upon a time there was a village. This village was very popular, because all the people were always kind to each other. 
One day two of the villagers wanted to go on an adventure. They asked the village leader if they could be permitted to go. 
The village leader smiled. He said, "I will permit you to go, but please be careful."
The two villagers thanked him and set off on their adventure. They went to the forest, and they saw all kinds of animals. 
The two villagers had so much fun that they stayed until it was almost dark. When they were ready to return home, they remembered the village leader had said to be careful. 
So they took the safest path back to the village, and soon they were back home safe and sound. 
The village leader was pleased to see them back, and said to them, "I'm glad you returned safely. The people of this village are very popular, and it's important to keep us all safe." 
The two villagers nodded in agreement. They knew that their village was special, and always took care when they went on adventures.
Once upon a time, there was a girl. She was three years old. Her name was Jane. She loved to decorate.

The girl ate her apple and thought of other tasty treats she could make. She asked her mom, "Please, can I make some cookies?" Her mom said yes and the girl got to work. She gathered ingredients and mixed them together. Soon, delicious chocolate chip cookies were in the oven.

So Sarah picked up the lime and marched all the way home. When she got home, she cut the lime open and discovered it was full of tasty juice! She was very happy and she thanked the tree for giving her such an interesting adventure. 

Sally was never able to return home. The nosy squirrel was never seen again.
Once upon a time, there was a boy named Tom. He was three years old and liked to explore outside with his parents.

"Look at my car, Tom!" Sara said. "It is faster and louder than yours. You have a boring car."

Suddenly, a kind lady whispered in her ear, "I will buy it for you." Lily was so happy and thanked the lady. She ate the lollipop and it tasted even better than she imagined. From that day on, Lily always remembered the lady's kindness and made sure to share her own lollipops with others.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to play with her toys and run in the park. One day, she went to a big house with her mom. The house had a bell that rang very loud. Lily thought it was funny and she laughed a lot.

The audience clapped and cheered as Jack and Jane finished their show. It was a great success!
Once upon a time there was an elderly neighbor who had a cat. Every day the elderly neighbor would go out to feed the cat. He would give her a bowl of food and she would eat it up quickly. The elderly neighbor really loved the cat, so he always made sure to feed her.

Joey was scared and ran away. But he never learned his lesson. The shopkeeper shook his head and thought to himself, “Why can't some people be more careful?�

After school, Lily went back to the ranch and told her mommy what happened. Her mommy gave her a big hug and said, "Don't worry, Lily. It's okay to make mistakes. We all have accidents sometimes." Lily felt better and went back to playing in the fields, happy to be home where she felt safe and loved.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily who loved to play outside. One day, she found a big maze made out of green bushes. She wanted to explore it but didn't know how to get through it. 

Then, she heard a loud bark. She turned around and saw a big dog running towards her bear. The dog grabbed the bear in his mouth and shook him. Lily was scared and sad. She yelled at the dog to stop. She ran to the bench and tried to get her bear back.

John and Sam decided to take a break and eat their lunch. They unpacked the food and set it up on a log.

They laughed and ran and played together. Daisy made sure to take extra care of the foal, because she knew it was very fragile.

When they came back to the table, Ben picked up his sandwich and took a big bite. Lily saw his dirty hands and said, "Ew, Ben, your hands are disgusting! You did not wash them well. You will get sick and make me sick too. You should wash them again."

They find a thin tree near the balloon. They try to climb it. But the tree is too thin. It bends and shakes. Lila and Ben fall down.

Mum replied, "We are visiting an exciting new country called Spain. We are going to have lots of fun!"

But one day, Debby hurt her ankle badly. Her dad said she couldn't walk and had to stay at home for a day. As she lay on her bed, she started to feel really sad about leaving the camera at home.

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan learn? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She learnt that she could prevent getting too hot by playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

"You should never lock the door and play with the faucet. It is dangerous and wasteful. You could get hurt or flood the bathroom. And you should never be mean to each other. You are brother and sister. You should love and respect each other. Do you understand?"

When they got home, Lily was still sad about losing her doll. But then her daddy found it in the car! She was so happy to have her doll back and hugged it tight. From that day on, she made sure to always keep her doll close so she wouldn't lose it again.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. One day, she was playing with her toys when her mom came in and said, "Lily, it's time to set the clock for dinner." 

The man smiled and thought a moment before replying. "Surfing helps me to learn how to appreciate the beauty of life," he said. "When I'm out on the water, I remember to be thankful for the gifts that I am given each day."

Ben thinks for a moment. He trusts Lily. He nods his head.

One day, Lily saw a pretty vase in the museum. She wanted to touch it, but her mommy said no. Lily was nervous because she really wanted to touch it. 

Sarah replied, "No, it's too beautiful to be locked up in a cage."

"Why does this peach taste bad?" Emily asked.

On the way back home, Timmy fell asleep in the car. He dreamt about all the fun adventures he would have with his new unique toy.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Timmy. Timmy loved to play with his toy cars and trucks. One day, he found a missile toy in his toy box. He didn't know what it was, but it looked cool, so he played with it.

Tim and Mia think the crabs are funny and cool. They watch them for a long time. They are lucky to see so many crabs. They tell Mom and Dad about the crabs. Mom and Dad smile and say they are proud of Tim and Mia. They are good at watching and learning. They all have a fun day at the beach.
Sara liked to play in the park with her friends. They ran, jumped, and slid on the grass and the swings. One day, Sara saw a big tree with many red and yellow leaves. She wanted to climb the tree and see the sky.

The lady was touched and decided to free the girl from the tree. She looked at the girl and said, "You don't have to worry anymore, now you can match with the best of them!" The little girl smiled and hugged the powerful lady in thanks. 

"Can you help me?" Sue asked Bob. Bob said, "Yes, I can help you. I have big muscles and can throw the ball far."

Suddenly, Daisy learned a valuable lesson. She realized that you can never be sure who you are talking to over the telephone.

John nodded, but he still felt disappointed. He looked around for something else he could bounce on. Suddenly he noticed an empty corner.

One day, Spidey saw a big bug flying towards his tree. Spidey thought, "I want to catch that bug, but I need a bigger cobweb." So, Spidey made a bigger cobweb than he ever had before. It took him all day, but he was proud of it.

Mom did not believe them. She thought they were lying. She was angry. She picked up the small toys and threw them in the bin.

So, with their happy faces, the two friends opened their lucky bags and began swapping goodies. They laughed, giggled and cheered as they found a new treasure in each bag. 

That evening, Emily decided to make the gray memory her own. She danced around it, swirling in circles and stomping her feet. She was so happy to have her very own memory. Emily joyfully spun around and around until the night sky began to come alive with stars. 

The gorilla smiled and said, "I would love to! Singing is my favorite thing to do." So the three of them sang together in the forest. After a while, the birds said, "Thank you for singing with us, Gorilla. Now we can all make the forest more beautiful together." 

<INSTRUCTION> What Anna and Bella do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Anna and Bella laughed, knowing that the table in the garden was a very special place. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Lily cried. She was in pain and she was sorry. She looked for Mom, but she could not see her. She saw many people and things, but not Mom. She felt alone and scared. She wanted Mom to protect her.

Emily ran downstairs and found a big, dependable bowl of water. Excitedly, she asked, "Is this what I get to drink?" 

"Yes, we can, but we have to prepare first. We need to get our coats, hats, gloves, and blankets, because it will be very cold outside. We also need to get our binoculars, so we can see the comet better. And we need to find a good spot, where there are no lights or trees to block our view," their dad said.

"Sure," Jack said with a smile.

Timmy looked at the ball and said, "Ew, that's gross! Let's throw it away." 

The end.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to play outside in the park. One day, she saw a big yellow goose walking in the grass. 

The squirrel giggled and said: "Yes! Go grab it and open it". 

The little girl nodded excitedly. She wanted to show mommy something else.

Sammy and Maria took turns passing the balloon back and forth. They laughed and laughed at the silly game. Then, the balloon burst and Sammy and Maria had to stop playing.

"Maybe we need a ladder," Lila said.

He looked at his lovely creation and then he skipped away pleased with his work.
Once upon a time there was a lucky chicken. He kept pecking at the grass and wandering around in the sunshine. One day he kept walking and walking until he came to a very big pond. He wanted to keep exploring, but he was very scared of the water. 

Lily smiled and went back to her rubber duck in the bathtub, feeling proud of herself for being a calm helper.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to play with her toys and draw pictures. One day, she wanted to get some crayons from the cabinet, but it was too high for her to reach.

Tom said sorry to Sue and gave her back the basket. Sue was happy to have her basket back. They both learned that it is important to be careful with other people's things. And Sue learned that her basket was strong and reliable, even when Tom ran with it.
One day, a little red car named Zoomy loved to zoom around his town. He liked to make a loud whistle sound as he went fast. The sun was warm and bright today, so Zoomy went out to play.

But when she reached for the flower, she heard a voice. "Please don't pick me," the voice said. "I am a sunflower and I need the sun to grow and be happy. If you pick me, I will die."

"Hey, that's not fair!" Ben cried. "That was my cookie! You already ate two!"

Luckily, a little bird was nearby and heard the frog's cries. It pecked the pepper out of the frog's hands and said, "There, you don't have to eat it anymore!"

Sara did not listen. She ran towards the hill. Ben followed her. He did not want to be alone.

“Mama, I touched something slimy,� he said.

The baby was very excited as he saw the colorful flowers, saw birds singing and heard a bee buzzing by. But then his foot got caught in a bush and he felt a small cut on his foot. Nana was very kind and knew just what to do. She took off her scarf and wrapped it around the baby's foot to make it feel better.

Tom and Sally had a lots of fun swinging together on the fancy swing. They became friends and promised to come back to the park soon.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lila who had a very special hand. It was unique because it was made out of a different kind of material. Everyone was amazed by it! 

The moral of the story is that it's important to listen to the advice of other people, even if it means not being quite as competitive.
John was feeling very anxious about trying new things. He had never tasted corn before and he was scared he wouldn't like it.

Billy and his mom spent the afternoon mixing ingredients together. Soon they created a delicious treat. Billy was so proud; he had reached for the mixer and made something special.
Once upon a time, there was a young girl called Bonnie. Bonnie lived by the sea and loved to dive and explore the reef. She had a special knife to cut coral and shells from the reef, but one day Bonnie lost her knife. 

"Can we still eat the pizza?" Ben asked.

When he finished, the fence was strong and Dad was happy. He had a good dinner and a nice fence – he was very pleased.
Once upon a time, there was a mechanic named Dave. He loved his job and enjoyed fixing things for people. One day, Dave got a very special job - he had to fix an orange truck. 

One day, the smart bull and his friends were playing tag. The bull was going so fast that he ran straight through a fence and into a farmer's garden. 

Amy didn't want to stay, she was so restless. But mother said, "Be a good girl and listen to the lecture. I'll be back in an hour."

They decided to leave the park and go to a different place. They did not want to see the rude boy again. They hoped he would learn to be kind and to share.

Lily looked everywhere for her shoe, but she couldn't find it. She asked her friends for help, but no one had seen it. She was so upset that she started to cry. 

Bubbles had an idea! She thought if they worked together, they could improve Tweetie's situation. Bubbles and Tweetie started to build a new nest together. They found some twigs and some soft grass to make the nest cozy. While they worked, Bubbles made sure to smile and encourage Tweetie.

To make it up to her mother, Lily asked if there was anything she could do. Her mother thought for a moment and then smiled. She said that she had an empty jar with a lid and asked Lily to try and fill it with nice things. 

The moms did not like his answer. They said they would call the police, and report his dog. They also said they would not let their kids play with him or his dog anymore.

Mama quickly ran to the the elephant to help, but it stood up on its own. Mama smiled and breathed a sigh of relief. Then the elephant began to sparkle, and soon enough it flew away into the sky. 

Lily went home and told her mom about the box. Her mom gave her a key and said, "Maybe this will unlock the box." Lily was so excited! She ran back to the park with the key and opened the box.

That night she went to school and she told all of her friends about the secret. They were amazed that she could find the secret. She showed them the flower and everyone thought it was the most beautiful thing ever. 

A lawyer walked by and said to them, "Why don't you all give Tim a challenge and make him prove that he is the best?"

"Look, I have more cards than you!" Lily said. "I am going to win the game and get the trophy!"

Suddenly, a cloud covered the sun. The bunny could not see the sunrise anymore. She lay in the grass and thought. Then, she had an idea. She curled up into a ball and pretended to lie like the sun.

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan wanted to do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Joan still wanted to play. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

<INSTRUCTION> What di Joan's mother say to her? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Her mother said, Joan, you must take a nap and prevent getting too hot. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Sue says, "That is not hard. I can do that too. Let me try." She takes Tom's cap. She puts it on her head. She tries to balance it.

The little girl was no longer frightened. She had a great time at the palace and learned that trying new things can be fun!
Bob lived in a small house with his mom and dad. Every day he would look out the window and see all the birds in the sky. One day, he noticed something special. There was a ugly bird flying in the air with a long piece of paper in its beak.

One day, the sun saw a tiny flower that was sad. The flower had to fight with big rocks to grow. The sun wanted to help the flower. So, the sun shined brighter and gave the flower more light.

The little red motor pulled and pulled with all its strength. Slowly, the big truck came out of the mud. The driver of the truck was so grateful. He said, "Thank you, little red motor! You are very strong and helpful."

Anna and Ben learned a lot from the man. They thanked him and said goodbye. They went back to their toys and pretended to be crane drivers.

Lily and Ben nodded and said, "Yes, mom."

The doggy was so happy and grateful that he started wagging his tail and jumping around. From that day on, the doggy had a new friend and he never felt poor again. He would march over to the park every day to play with his new friend and join in on the party. The end.
Once upon a time, there was a young girl named Lily who loved to explore the jungle. One day, she met a crocodile who was very big and green. Lily was scared at first, but the crocodile was friendly and they became friends.

"The sofa?" he repeated. "How do you count the sofa?"

The mule felt relieved. He happily joined the other animals on the farm. He ran and played with them without any fear.

"It was not our fault, mom. The phone was too hard to use. It was not fun. It was boring. We wanted a better phone," they said.

As they played, the prince noticed that one of his friends was feeling sad. He asked her what was wrong and she said that she lost her toy. The prince wanted to help her, so he added his favorite toy to her collection. She was so happy and grateful that she gave the prince a big hug.

The neighbours clapped and thanked Joe for helping to put out the fire. Joe felt happy that he had done something to help. He was glad to have been so eager to take action.
Once upon a time, there was a charming bear. He had a special cooler that was filled with his favourite treats. One day, he wanted to take a break from his busy day and settle down in the park. He found a nice spot and opened up his cooler for a snack. But when he opened it, a mean badger was already inside!

While playing, Timmy saw a man wearing a suit and tie. He asked his mommy who the man was. His mommy told him that the man was a lawyer. Timmy was curious and asked his mommy what a lawyer does. His mommy explained that a lawyer helps people with legal problems. 

Ted couldn’t believe his luck. He picked up the stamp, and held it tightly.Ted started to smile as he thought about all the fun things he could do with his new stamp.

Mazzy was so excited about her new fish. She could already imagine how peaceful it would be in the pond.

He was so excited to play with his new, adorable hockey stick!
Once there was a clever girl named Lucy. She liked to explore different things and try new things. She was very intelligent. One day, her father wanted her to help him hang a picture. He brought out a nail and said to Lucy, "Let's keep this nail so we can hang the picture."

The owner tried to fix the ball, but it was too broken. So they went to the store to replace the ball with a new one. They found a blue ball that was just as bouncy as the red one. The owner was very happy to have a new ball to play with.

After the film was done, Sally said, "Can we watch it again?" Her mom said, "Yes, but later. We must do something else now." So Sally put her feet on the floor and dashed off to play. She knew it would only be a short while before she got to listen to the film again.
Once upon a time, Amy and her mommy went to the mall. Amy was very excited because she had some new shoes. When they got to the mall, Amy and her mommy saw many other mommies and kids.

The vehicle took her to a big park. She saw so many things: trees, flowers, birds and other animals. She felt excited and wanted to remember it all.

One day, he invited a friend to his house for a play date. His friend was so excited about the visit. When he arrived, the vine showed him all the things he had printed. The friend asked, "What is this?"

When Lily reached the hill, she saw a beautiful valley. She was happy that she listened to her mom and crossed the road safely. She went back home and told her mom about her adventure. The moral of the story is to always listen to your parents because they want to keep you safe.
Once upon a time, there was a helpful cat named Tom. Tom liked to help his friends in the house. He was always happy to meet new friends.

The pig was too friendly to say no. He nodded and settled down to sleep.

One day, a man came to the mountain with his horse. The man wanted to see the beautiful view from the top of the mountain. But when he got to the top, he saw that the volcano was very hungry. The man remembered that he brought some food with him, so he decided to feed the volcano. 

At last, Molly drove back home, tired and happy. She had had a wonderful day and she was proud of her clever driving skills.
Once upon a time there was a young boy. His name was John and he loved to play. One day, he was playing in his backyard when he bumped his knee. It really hurt!

So baby did, and found her rubber duck quickly. As she was walking back downstairs, she saw some bubbles in the water. Baby grinned, excited to take a bath. 

The bird would eat some of their wheat. Sue and her mom were sad, but they still let the bird stay. They knew that birds could be helpful too. They hoped the rude bird would change and help them one day.

Sara points to a cone with chocolate ice cream. Tom points to a cone with red ice cream. The man says, "That is spicy ice cream. It is hot in your mouth. Do you like spicy?"

Lily said, "I wish you could play with me, little puppy."

The moral of the story is that you don't need a big fancy wedding to show someone you love them. All you need is a promise and a friend.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She had a nice trumpet that she loved to play. One day, she decided to take her trumpet to the park to play some music.

Froggy looked at the ball and said, "It's a bit dull, but we can still play with it." Ducky and Froggy had a lot of fun playing with the leather ball and they were very happy they dove down to get it. The end.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to ride her bicycle in the park. One day, she noticed a boy with a rare bicycle. It was very shiny and had lots of colors. 

John's dad was a captain, so he knew how to sail the yacht. He took everyone on a journey around the island. John and his siblings all had turns steering the yacht. Everyone was having fun!

Tom and Mia said, "We love it! Thank you for showing us your boat. You are the best!"

Lila thinks for a moment. She wants to be nice to Sam, but she also wants to tell the truth. She is very creative, so she has an idea.

"No, buddy, I'm afraid we can't," said Dad sadly. "But maybe one day."

Tom asked his friend, Sam. "Did you see my net?" Sam shook his head. "No, I didn't see it." Tom was sad. He could not catch fish without his net. But Sam had an idea. "Let's look together," he said.

Tim joined her. He shouted too, "Sun, sun, where are you? Please come out and play with us! We want to see you!"

"Go away, Fluffy! You are not welcome here! These are my toys and you can't have them!" Spot said.

My brother was brave again, he dived right back into the water. He swam up to the paw and discovered that it was an otter! He was so happy. The otter was very friendly and we all played together in the water for a long time. 

Mom said that the box would make the marble travel to faraway places. Jamie wondered how the box could do such a thing. He opened his eyes and smiled. He was sure that Ryan would love his surprise.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named George. He was excited to have a special day with his family.

"Let's share the perfume," Lily said.

Next, they revealed a deep ocean filled with bright fish. Everybody oohed and ahhed over the beautiful creatures.

But the fish is fast and smart. It swims under a rock. Tom and Mia cannot see it. They look around. They cannot find the fish. They are sad.

The lady saw Tom's face. She said, "Don't worry, sweetie. Some ladies have mustaches and some don't. It's okay. It's just how we are. It doesn't change who we are inside. We are still nice and kind and friendly. Just like your teddy bear."

Suddenly, he started to feel strange and realized that he was starting to disappear. He waved goodbye to Jack, but it was too late. He had disappeared completely! 

“What does this do?� asked Lucy.

The daughter smiled and nodded eagerly. She liked the way it looked on Mommy.

The two friends worked together to try and make the pin zip again. After a few minutes of hard work, the pin began to zip again!

He caught up with the big boy near a hot dog stand. He saw the big boy holding the doll over a trash can. He said, "Stop! Give back the doll. It is not yours. It is Lily's. She loves it." The big boy said, "No. It is ugly. I don't care." He was about to drop the doll.

Suddenly, she heard something in the water. It was a fish in trouble! He was stuck in a net that was too tight. The girl was scared, but she knew she had to help. So, she grabbed the stick and started to help the fish. The girl first struggled to cut through the net. But slowly, the net started to tear. Then, the little girl reached in and pulled out the fish. She had saved him!

The moral of the story is that we should always listen to our elders and not overindulge in things that are not good for us.
Once upon a time, a bunny named Benny went to the garden to find some yummy veggies. He saw a big, red radish and hopped over to it. He took a bite and it was so crunchy and tasty!

"Where's Max?" Lily asked, worried.

Lily and Max laughed. They thought it was funny. They picked up more celery and threw it to Grandma.

It hopped and hopped, trying to find its way. But the egg was very small and it was getting lost. Suddenly, it saw a caterpillar. The caterpillar said, "I can help you find your family if you give me a hug."

Kiki smiled. They held hands and ran home together. They never went back to the gray wreck.
Once upon a time there was a little girl named Lucy. She was eager to go to the park. When she got there, she saw a huge balloon just waiting for her. She jumped up and down in excitement. 

The child was so happy. He thanked the chicken for being so helpful and then ran inside to see his parents. 

The fish said, "Yes! I will be your friend!"

Molly smiled at Max. "That was fun wasn't it?" she said.

As they played together, Lily noticed a knot in Jack's shoelaces. She offered to help him untie it, but the knot was too tight. Jack was sad because he thought he would have to go home with his shoes still tied in a knot.

Mum said, “Come on, love, it’s okay. We’ll just look up here for a minute. You can see a lot of things from here.�

The next day, Lily went to school and took her exam. She felt proud of herself because she had studied so hard. After school, it started to rain again, but Lily didn't mind because she knew she had done her best on her exam.
Once upon a time, there was a dog named Max. Max was a big, furry dog with a long, curly tail. His owner, Lily, always took him for walks on a leash. The leash was a long, red rope that Lily held tightly so Max wouldn't run away.

Suddenly, the pain stopped and when Jack opened his eyes, the mysterious monster was gone! Jack was very relieved but still a bit scared of the mysterious monster.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Anna.  Anna wanted to go on an adventure, so she searched around her house to find something to do. Suddenly, Anna spotted something outside that was very unusual. It was a big, red blob of ice! Anna was so excited! She had never seen anything like this before.

"Can I play with your car, Ben?" Lily asked.

The rain stopped and the sun came out. Timmy was so happy! He ran outside with his bucket and played in the puddles. Timmy knew that even when things seem gloomy, there is always a way to have fun and dream about better days.
Once upon a time, a little girl named Lily went to visit her grandma. When she got there, her grandma gave her a big hug and said, "Hello, Lily! You are so polite."

<INSTRUCTION> What Anna and Bella do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Anna and Bella laughed, knowing that the table in the garden was a very special place. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

The mouse stopped and said, “Ah-choo! What was that?� 

"I'm sorry, Mommy. I did not know. I just wanted to paint. I did not have space in my room. And my brother did not let me paint. He was noisy and mean." Lily said.

"Here you go, doll," Anna says. "This is a yummy cake. It is pink like you."

<INSTRUCTION> What Anna and Bella do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Anna and Bella laughed, knowing that the table in the garden was a very special place. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

"You can," Emma said, smiling. "All you need is a little bit of practice."

"Because she took my block!" Ben said.

<INSTRUCTION> What Anna and Bella do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Anna and Bella laughed, knowing that the table in the garden was a very special place. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Little Jack smiled. His dad was right. He ran ahead and urged his dad to follow. As they got closer, Jack could see his dad's proud smile.
Once upon a time there was a heavy truck. The truck belonged to a man called Ben. One day, the truck stopped working, so Ben took it to a mechanic.

Every day they would play catch with a ball, or look at the sky and pick out shapes in the clouds. But today something was different.

The little girl saw a man walking past. He stopped to listen to the music and he smiled at her. She was so happy to see him that she smiled back. 

When Timmy and Max arrived, Grandma opened the door and hugged them. She told them to come in and have a snack, but to be careful not to scare Fluffy, who was hiding under the sofa. Timmy and Max followed Grandma into the living room, but Max saw something moving under the sofa and got curious. He sniffed and barked, and Fluffy panicked. She hissed and scratched, and ran out of the sofa, past Timmy and Max, and out of the door.

"Where is the train taking me?" Shannon asked her aunt.

One day, he finds a letter with his name on it. He opens it and sees a picture of a toy and a dog. He reads the letter and sees Ben's name. He is very happy. He likes Ben's letter. He thinks it is very original. He wants to write back to Ben. He runs to his room and gets his paper and crayons. He starts to write.
Tim and Mia were friends who liked to play outside. One day, they went to the lake with their moms. They saw many things at the lake: fish, ducks, frogs, and flowers. They also saw something unusual: a big brown animal with long teeth and a flat tail.

Her mom looked at the playground and saw that it was very scary. But she knew how much her daughter loved to play, so she said, "Okay, we can go to the playground, but we have to be careful."

"Who is this?" Ben asked, pointing to another photo. It showed a man with a big smile and a hat. He was holding Lily in his arms.

One day, while he was skipping around the garden, he noticed a funny looking hive in the corner. It was shaped differently than his hive and it had some interesting patterns painted on it.

Timmy became very selfish and started to cry. He didn't want to play golf anymore. His dad was very disappointed and they went home without playing golf or going on the slide.

Bob shouted with joy. He couldn't believe how much fun he was having. He ran over to join the game. Everyone welcomed him happily and showed him how to play. Bob had a wonderful time at the gym and couldn't wait to come back the next week.
Once upon a time, there was a girl named Tina and she wanted an apron, so she went to the store. The store had lots of aprons: some were red, some were blue, some were green, and some were bright yellow.

After that, they kept playing with the squirt gun and the pretend stable. It was so much fun and they laughed until they were both out of breath. Meri and Tom were having a crazy good time!
Once upon a time, there was a thin story. It was about a little girl who loved to explore. One day, she went on an adventure to a secret land. As she wandered around, she stumbled upon a special tree. She studied it closely, and noticed it had a door made of leaves. She opened the door and stepped inside.

One day, they decide to go on a mission to explore the universe. They put on their helmets and suits and get inside the box. They count down from ten and then make loud noises like a rocket.

Molly's mum smiled and said, "Yes, it sure is! Why don't we look through it together and see what we can learn?"

The little girl said: "Please help me, I'm scared!"

But Jill said sadly, "No, let's not. We have no right to take their money. It's not ours."

Lily and Ben stop arguing. They look at the tree. They see no bird. They miss the bird.

Remy used his strong legs to kick the leaves. The leaves spread all around. He made a nice, warm bed under the tree. Remy was happy and said, "This is a good bed for a cold day!"

But the stand refused to move no matter how hard they tried. It was very stubborn. The mouse pulled, the frog jumped and the dog barked, but the stand wouldn't budge. All their efforts had failed! 

"Good job, Ben!" mom said. "Now you can have some cake."

"Wow, Tim, that is very good!" Jen says. She claps her hands. She wants to make a tower too. She starts to stack bricks on top of each other.

The rabbit said, "That squirrel won't share his nuts with me." 

<INSTRUCTION> What Anna and Bella do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Anna and Bella laughed, knowing that the table in the garden was a very special place. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Emma was happy that she was able to enjoy her snacks during the film. She had a great time at the cinema and she looked forward to going again soon.
Once upon a time, there was a hungry little girl. She went to the kitchen and saw a mixer. The mixer had many buttons and knobs that the girl wanted to explore.

Bella asked her mom, "What is that mark?" Her mom smiled and answered, "That's a special mark that was made by a very special guest."

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan wanted to do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Joan still wanted to play. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

<INSTRUCTION> What di Joan's mother say to her? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Her mother said, Joan, you must take a nap and prevent getting too hot. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

So Jane put on her favourite music and started to fly and dance around the room while she did the dishes. And when the dishes were done Jane had had a lot of fun and the chore didn't seem so hard after all.
Timmy and his mommy were walking in the park, when they saw a big, green jacket lying on the ground. Mommy said that it was probably not a good idea to take it, but Timmy thought it looked so nice that he wanted to keep it.

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan learn? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She learnt that she could prevent getting too hot by playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Sam's eyes widened in surprise. He couldn't believe his luck. He ran home to show his mum the incredible pearl he had found in the oyster. When she saw the pearl, she gasped in amazement.

And they all lived happily ever after, playing with their lime!
Mum was shopping for a present for her little daughter's birthday. She looked around the shop and found something perfect. It was a modern toy of a white dove. 

The man replied: “Oh, you need to use a paddle if you want the boat to move. You can collect one from the shed over there.�

But the bee did not go away. It was angry. It stung Ben on his lip. Ben cried out. His lip hurt. It was red and swollen.

The butterflies were happy to have a new friend to play with. They continued to wander around the garden together, enjoying the sunshine and the beautiful flowers.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. Lily loved to read books with her mommy. One day, Lily and her mommy went to the park. They saw a man with a pink gun. 

The dog stops crying and wags his tail. He licks their faces and thanks them. He says, "You are very kind and compassionate. You make me feel better. Can I join you and watch the parade?"

The boy went to the garage and sure enough, there was his car hooked to the wall. He smiled and unhooked it. He felt excited as he drove away.

Lucy ran to the kitchen, filled a bowl with warm water, and brought it to the thief. She carefully put in a nice soap and said "Here, now you can wash your hands". The thief smiled and said "Thank you little one! That was perfect". He washed his hands and quickly ran away. 

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan learn? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She learnt that she could prevent getting too hot by playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

The bird chirped and then said, "This is an ancient spot. It has been here for many, many years."

She did not see the enormous dog that came into the living room. The dog saw the blocks on the floor. The dog liked to play with blocks. The dog ran to the blocks and started to chew them and toss them in the air.

"It's so impressive," said Carol's mom. "You picked the perfect couch."

"Hey, stop that!" Mia said, getting upset. "You are ruining my story! The dragon is nice and the knight is his friend!"

"It's okay, mom," said Ben. "We can play nation again another day."

One day, she noticed a big hairy stack of hay in the corner of her garden. She got really excited and rushed over to it. She ran her fingers through the soft hay and shouted with joy.

Finally, the friends found the most beautiful exit. They were so excited. They ran to the exit and laughed together.

One day, as Jane was walking along, she noticed something strange. There were buildings and houses turning grey! Jane was very worried.

The witch then left and Tom was left completely alone in the woods, all alone and dead forever.
Once there was a little girl, she was three years old. Her mommy had taught her some new words. One day, when mommy was in the kitchen, the girl wanted to show her how much she had learnt. She went to the kitchen and said, "Mommy, I learnt a new language!"

The bird smiled and thanked Poppy for helping him out. Poppy taught us a valuable lesson: it’s important to help others in need.
One day, two children, Jack and Alex, were playing in a forest. They were running around and having so much fun. Suddenly, Jack heard a noise coming from the bush. 

The truck attached the small car and drove away. The small car was very sad and cried. The truck did not care and kept driving. In the end, the small car was taken far away and never saw its friends again.
Once upon a time, in a big forest, there lived a little girl named Lily. She loved to pick fruits from the trees. One day, she saw a big orange tree. It had many big, round oranges.

"These loops are not fun," Lily said. "They are too different from our old loops. I want to play with our old loops."

They looked around for the medal, but it was nowhere to be seen.

They took turns to dry themselves with the towel. They wrapped it around their bodies. They felt warm and cozy. They smiled at each other.

Jim looked at the iron and he was worried because it was so big. His mum smiled and told him not to worry. She helped him plug in the iron, switch it on and showed him how it worked.

Mia picked out the perfect train and took it home. It was just like the one she had lost but now she had a new toy to make even more memories. Mia was so happy!
Once there was a bear named Larry. One day Larry wanted to go on an adventure, so he decided to jog. He was feeling very grateful because it was such a beautiful day! Larry jogged and jogged until he spotted something in the sky. It was a jet! He had never seen a jet before and he was very excited.

From then on, the wealthy cup was known as the most generous in the castle.
Once upon a time, there was a cheerful girl named Lucy. She liked to wander through the country. One day, she went for a long walk. She saw many different things along the way.

His mom called out to him, "Tom, it's time to go. I can see you are getting weak. Come out of the pool and hang up your towel."

Mum smiled and said, 'Goodnight sweetheart. I love you.'
Once there was a little girl who really liked cards. She had a stack of colourful cards that she liked to look at and play games with. One day, she was feeling very eager and decided to show her cards to a friend. She raced to her friend's house and knocked on the door, holding her cards in her hands.

But then, to Daisy's surprise, the bracelet started to tremble. At first, Daisy was scared. But then she realised that the bracelet was shaking because it was lonely and wanted a friend too.

He had his bucket with him and he started to collect shells and small rocks. After a while, he heard a voice behind him. 

Sam looked at Tim. He felt scared. The swing looked dangerous. He did not want to try it. He wanted to play on the old swings. They were safe and reliable.

As they continued walking, they saw a cat stuck in a tree. Timmy used his net to help the cat get down. "You're so brave, Timmy," Lily said with admiration. They all went home happy and proud of their adventures.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She was going on a trip with her family. They were going to visit her grandma who lived far away. 

At the end of the day they thanked the cart for being useful. They said goodbye, and walked home. They had a fun adventure thanks to their useful cart.
Once upon a time there was a little boy named Jack. Jack was only three years old and he loved to explore. 

The girl began to climb and soon the sun went down. When it was dark, the girl stopped walking. She was tired and she was cold.

Suddenly, Lily's little brother came into the room and wanted to play with her. Lily told him to be careful with the magazine, but he didn't listen. He started to jump on the bed and accidentally tore the magazine.

The wealthy man saw the boy and gave him a big plate of food. The boy was very happy and said thank you. But then, the boy accidentally spilled his food on the floor. He was sad and worried the wealthy man would be mad.

Lily happily painted another picture with her plastic paintbrushes. She painted a small bird and showed it to her mom. "Mommy, look what I painted! It's a small bird!" said Lily.

The rabbit hopped around the beans and started to eat. Sue and Mike were delighted to see the rabbit enjoying their snack. They had a wonderful picnic and plan to visit the park again soon.
Once upon a time, there was a zipping sound in the quiet room. It sounded like someone was playing with something. Two friends, Mel and June, were curious and excited to find out what was making the noise. 

"Be polite, Ben," Lily said. "Maybe the crab is shy. We should not scare him."

Sam nodded and ran outside. He rolled around in the grass and felt the heavy fog on his skin. He waved at the neighbors walking by, but they couldn't see him in the fog.

Everyone stopped and looked at Billy. They couldn't believe how gracefully he weaved between the vehicles. Even the loudest cars thanked Billy for making the traffic less noisy.

"Maybe it was lonely!" Sam says. "Or maybe it was hungry!"

Three brave friends ran to rescue the kitten. They helped the kitten back onto the shore and he was happy again. The yellow kitten thanked the friends and ran back home.

Timmy ran to the closet to hide. He found a comfortable blanket and decided to wrap himself in it. He felt cozy and warm.

Max watched as she tasted it and smiled. He knew that he could trust his best friend.

John clapped his hands together. He couldn't wait! Mommy ordered a huge bowl of ice cream for John and it arrived shortly. 

Lily stops. She sees Tom's hand. It is bleeding. She feels sorry for him.

"Mommy, I want to climb the vine!" the little girl said, hopping from one foot to the other.

The white tray was left all alone, until something else appeared. A big orange cat hopped onto the tray, and started to eat the food. But that's another story for another day.
Once upon a time there lived a little boy named Jack. He was always looking for an adventure but he could never find one.

Max laughed again. He said, "Yes, you do! You are a sneezy lion, Lily!"

"Lily, give back the spoon! Mom needs it for the soup!" Tom shouted.

<INSTRUCTION> What were the two sisters doing? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> The two sisters were having so much fun until they heard a loud noise. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

"I don't know, let's go see!" said Timmy. 

Her mother looked over with a big smile and said, 'Yes, I know your name is Emma!'.

They started to play a game of tag and Timmy managed to catch his mom. They both laughed and had a great time. Timmy realized that even though they were poor, they could still have fun and enjoy each other's company.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to help her mommy in the kitchen. One day, Lily's mommy asked her to perform a special task. She had to put all the dirty dishes in the dishwasher. Lily was very happy to help, but she found it hard to reach the top shelf. 

"Help!" Sara cries. "The dog is bad!"

That night, the brave little girl followed her mom to the circus. There she saw the clowns jumping and tumbling and was so excited. 

But then, something goes wrong. The man drops the stick. The fire falls on the ground. It catches a cloth. The cloth burns. The fire grows. The people scream. They run out of the tent.

Tom and Mia reached the end of the floor. They looked at their cars and saw that Mia's car was a little bit ahead of Tom's car. Mia jumped up and down and clapped her hands. She said, "I won! I won! I have the victory!"

Mom said, "We're going to a place with thick green trees and a big pond."

Mum thanked the driver, and they went home. She warned Jack that if he ever tried to do something like that again, there would be serious consequences. From then on, Jack listened to his mum and learned his lesson.
Once there was a boy named Toby. One day he was walking in the park when he saw a dog fighting with a cat. Toby was scared and ran away. But he tripped over his leg and fell down. He started to cry.

Lily sat at the table and waited for her sandwich. When her mommy brought it to her, she leaned over the table to take a big bite. But then, some of the sandwich fell on her shirt. 

But when Timmy tried to climb the tree, he saw a big spike sticking out of the branch. He knew it would hurt him if he touched it. So, Timmy decided to go back inside and ask his mom for help. 

"Wow, look at this!" Ben said. "It's like a winter wonderland!"

So all day, Lola ran and twirled and flew around the house in her wings, pretending to be a fairy. She was so excited and had so much fun!
Once upon a time there was a bird called Tweet. Tweet wanted to soar through the air like the other birds, but he was afraid he wouldn't be able to do it.

When they were done shopping, Lily and her mommy went to the exit. They saw a man who was wearing a big bow tie. Lily thought it looked funny and she laughed. Then, they went home and had some ice cream. The end.
Once upon a time, there was a big jungle. Many animals lived there. One day, a little birdie saw a lion. The lion was hurt and could not move. The birdie felt sad and wanted to help the lion. So, the birdie went to other animals and asked for their help. A monkey, an elephant, and a giraffe came to help. Together, they moved the lion to a safe place. The lion was happy and thanked the animals. From that day on, the lion and the birdie became friends.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. One day, Lily's mommy gave her a gift. It was a doll with a pretty dress. Lily was so happy and hugged her mommy. "Thank you, mommy! This is the best gift ever!" she said.

Alex was so happy he was jumping up and down with joy. He felt full after drinking three big cups of juice. He thanked his mom and went off to play.
Once upon a time there lived a sweet little girl called Elle. She was three years old and loved to play. One day Elle saw in the sky a bright, shiny laser. She wanted to touch it so she clapped her hands loudly.

They tried to pull the buckle, but it was too hard. They pushed and twisted it, but it did not move.

Ben and Lily hugged and squeezed their toys. They were happy and they played together. They made noises and pretended to be animals. They had a lot of fun in the living room.
Lila was a little girl who liked to play with her toys. She had a doll, a ball, a car and a bear. She liked to make them talk and do things. She had fun with her toys.

As they marched through the jungle, they saw many different animals like monkeys, birds, and even a snake. The lion led the way and his friends followed behind him. They marched and marched until they reached a big tree.

Mum and Dad finished their discussion and hugged each other. Dad looked at the little girl and said, “Want to know what we were talking about?� 

"Johnny got sick because he played with that piece of iron you gave him. It was rusty and not safe to play with," she said.

After a while, the dessert was ready. Sally and Tim took it out of the oven. It looked so good! They both tasted the dessert and it was the best they ever had. Tim was happy that he helped Sally, even if she was bossy. They shared the dessert with their family and everyone loved it.
Once upon a time, there was a little fox. This fox was very independent. He liked to do things all by himself. He lived in a small den in the woods.

From then on, no matter where Sam went, he kept a bit of the magic he found that day in his heart.
Once upon a time there was a fast fireman. He always wanted to help people in danger.

Lily cried and said, "I don't want to climb the ladder anymore. It's too scary." Her mom hugged her and said, "It's okay, Lily. We'll find something else fun to do."
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She had a toy named Teddy, who was her best friend. One day, Lily accidentally dropped Teddy and he broke. She was sad and cried a lot. 

"Run!" Leo shouted, picking up his car. "He might want our toys too!"

Suddenly, something small zipped past her. It was a tiny bee. She giggled at the fast bee and followed him. He zipped around all different places and before she knew it, he had stopped right in front of the question! He had the answer. She smiled and thanked the bee as he flew away, and then she answered the strange question.

Zoomy went to the park where many kids played. Zoomy saw a little girl crying. The girl said she lost her scarf. Zoomy was happy and showed her the scarf. The girl was so happy and thanked Zoomy. Zoomy felt good for helping and zoomed back home with a big smile.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Tim. Tim was an obedient boy who always did what his mom and dad told him to do. One day, Tim's mom asked him to mind his little sister, Sue, while she went to the store.

Lola took a deep breath and bit the onion. At first she felt uncomfortable and wanted to stop, but she kept trying. With each bite she felt better and better.

Suddenly, a neighbour popped by and said, "Hey, Jack! What are you building with that brick?"
Jack felt very annoyed that the neighbour had interrupted him. He wasn't building anything, he just liked looking at it. He shook his head and said, "I'm not building anything".

The mouse smiled back. Then, with a tiny wave, she scampered away.

Mommy was glad they were safe. She was proud they were brave. She hugged them and kissed them. She took them home. She cleaned their wounds and gave them cookies. She told them she loved them.

"Tim, come back!" he said. "That swing is not good. It might break. You might fall. You might hurt yourself."

That night, he hopped on his bike and went to the zoo. He opened one of the cages and managed to steal an elephant. It was a big elephant and he was so happy. 

Sara says, "No, it is my sock! I found it under my bed!"

<INSTRUCTION> What Anna and Bella do? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Anna and Bella laughed, knowing that the table in the garden was a very special place. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

But some kids were mean. They did not like Ben and Lily. They said bad things about them. They laughed at them. They took their toys and snacks. They pushed them and hurt them.

"I am Fluffy. I just moved here with my family. Can I play with you?" Fluffy said.

Tom nods. He thinks the shampoo is pretty. They open the bottle and squeeze some shampoo on their hands. They rub the shampoo on their hair, their faces, their clothes, and the walls. They laugh and make bubbles.

Mary said, "Please, Mommy. Can I keep it on my shelf?". 

Sam smiled. "That sounds like fun!" Together, they ran to the kitchen and chose a teaspoon from the drawer.

Her mom saw her hand and hugged her. She said, "Lily, you are hurt. Fire can burn. Fire can hurt. You should never play with fire. Fire is not a toy. Fire is dangerous." She took Lily inside and put some cold water and a bandage on her hand. She gave her a kiss and said, "I love you, Lily. You are my brave girl. But please be careful and stay away from fire."

"It's okay, boys," she says. "But you should be careful with your ball. You could hurt someone or something. And you should always ask before you pet a cat. Some cats are shy or scared. They need time to trust you."

Mommy smiled and said, "Sure, Tommy. Mr. Lee, can you show Tommy some of your work?" Mr. Lee nodded and took out a folder from his bag. He opened it and showed Tommy some papers with words and numbers on them. He said, "These are contracts, Tommy. They are agreements between people or companies. They say what they will do and what they will get. Lawyers write and check contracts to make sure they are fair and clear."

Jack and Lily played together in the big cardboard box. They laughed and had so much fun. They pretended to drive to many different places like the park, the store, and even the moon! At the end of the day, they were tired but very happy with their new cardboard box adventure.
Once upon a time, there was an adorable little cat named Kitty. She loved to play with her toys and take naps in the sun. One day, Kitty saw a big bowl of spaghetti on the table. She thought it looked yummy and wanted to take a bite.

Amy excitedly ran to get the hoop. She carefully hung it on the wall, and stepped back to admire her work.

One day, a little girl came to the mystery. She thought it looked interesting. She wanted to know what it was.

Sunny shook his head and said, "I don't know mom. I just feel scared and don't know why."

Mom shook her head. She pointed at the green fruit. "Do you know what this is?"

The next day, he set off for another adventure, knowing that if he ever wanted to see the market again, he would need to take a nap and grow big and tough.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Susie. She was three years old and she was always very curious. Susie wanted to find out what was behind the hill in her backyard. She decided to follow it and find out what was on the other side. 

The bird said, "It is too heavy for you. I can help you find a better way, let's think together." The bird and the little fish thought and thought until they finally came with a plan.

But her friends were scared. They saw a big fox hiding behind a bush. The fox was hungry and wanted to eat the geese.

The butterfly flew down and took a bite of the butter. It was delicious and so creamy, the butterfly wanted to eat all of it, and so it did. The butterfly ate all of the butter, and spoiled it for everyone else.

The fisherman shared his story with a special friend. Soon, lots of people came to the harbor to meet the ducks and learn their secret. Everyone was very impressed. 

The little girl was so happy that she had learnt a new word. She couldn't wait to show her friends at daycare.

As the sun began to set, Max and Lisa knew it was time to go home. They put the measure away and walked back to their homes, still smiling from their fun day. They couldn't wait to play together again tomorrow.
Once upon a time, there was a funny monkey named Bobo. Bobo loved to play all day in the big tree. One day, Bobo saw a big banana on the ground. He was very happy and wanted to eat it.

Jill replied, "I see something healthy and delicious!"

So, the train decided to take the bucket of water and pour it on the ground. The train made a big puddle and the bird was happy. The train felt good for helping the bird. From that day on, the train always looked for ways to help others.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She was very sleepy, but she didn't want to go to bed. Her mommy insisted that it was time for her to sleep, but Lily didn't want to. She wanted to play with her toys and watch cartoons. 

<INSTRUCTION> What idea did Joan have? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She had an idea about going out to the park again, and playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Mommy said, "Let's go wash your hands and put some cream on it. We don't want you to be uncomfortable." 

Sophie smiled and went back to exploring the kitchen. She was glad her mommy was there to help her and make her feel better.
Once upon a time, there lived a small boy named Alex. He was curious and liked to explore. One day he decided to march around his house to find something exciting.

They also saw their mom, who was angry and disappointed. She told them they were in trouble for fighting and not obeying. She took away the ball and sent them to their room. They had to sit on their beds and think about what they had done.

So Tuesday morning, he got up early. He was wearing his green shirt and walked to the bike shop.

The end.
One day a nice princess was walking in the forest. She noticed a big tree with lots of shiny apples. She wanted to pick the apples and add them to her basket.

Mia was sad. She did not want to leave the tiger. She waved goodbye to him and said sorry.

After he had taken his medicine, the little boy's mommy gave him a warm, comfortable hug. It made him feel better.

Sam stopped and stared. He wanted to cuddle the rabbit, but he was scared to touch it. His friends told him to try it. He slowly approached until he could feel the bunny's soft fur. It felt mild and gentle. Sam smiled and said, "Hi, Bunny!"

The child nodded and said, "I won't forget. I'll stay safe."

One day, Elly wanted to help her family. She thought, "I can work and help them find food!" So, Elly went to look for food in the forest. She used her long nose to pick up leaves and fruits.

Lily looked at her mom, who nodded and smiled. She felt happy and brave.

Joe wasn't so sure. He said, "It sounds like a lot of work." 

Jack brought the yellow flower to Paul, who said thanks and gave Jack some seeds from his garden. Jack planted the seeds in his garden, and now every summer Jack can see his reliable flowers growing!
Once there was a little girl called Lucy who wanted to sell something very special. She carefully wrapped up her knee in a box and took it outside.

"This package is for you," the mailman said, handing it to Molly.

Sam wasn't sure what the man meant by this. But he couldn't help but be curious and he eagerly agreed to learn.

The next day, Lucy began her mission once again. She tried and tried, but the marbles just wouldn't come out of the bottle. She was persistent in her efforts, but eventually the marbles stayed right where they were.

The end.

The mole was brave. He went to the big yawn. He saw it was just another mole hole. The mole was happy. He made a new friend. They played and dug in the dirt all day.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Mia. Mia loved to eat blueberries. One day, she found a big, thick bush full of blueberries. She was so happy!

"Sorry, frog," Lily said. "We did not mean to bother you. We just wanted to be your friends."

Lily learned her lesson and promised to never hurt animals again. From that day on, she always played nicely and enjoyed the pink flowers and light breeze in the park with her friend Timmy.
Once upon a time, there was a girl named Lily. She liked to do yoga with her mommy. They would stretch and move their bodies in funny ways. Lily was very good at yoga and could do a downward dog pose.

Lily looked at Ben and said, "Yes, thank you, Ben. Do you want to use my pink eraser, Ben?"

The princess was so happy and she took the diamond back to her castle. She kept it safe in the castle forever and told everyone about her special diamond.
Jill was hungry so she went to the kitchen. She looked inside the cupboards and chose a dish. The dish was filled with delicious food. She picked up a spoon and started eating. Then she heard a noise outside. It was her dog, Max. He was looking at her, wagging his tail. She wanted to take Max for a walk. She put her dish down and chose her leash. She was a little bit lazy so she put her shoes on and slowly walked outside with Max. They chose to go down a path to the park. Soon enough they were there and it was a beautiful day. Max ran around and Jill enjoyed the sunshine. After a while, Jill decided to go back home. She put Max in the house and was ready for another delicious dish.
Once upon a time, there was a white leopard who was very tired. So, he went to sleep under a big tree.

<INSTRUCTION> What were the two sisters doing? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> The two sisters were having so much fun until they heard a loud noise. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

"But I want to see. Maybe we can help," Lila said, pulling her hand away.

One day, a little boy came to the island in a boat. The boy said, "Hello! I want to know about this island." The wealthy man smiled and said, "I will show you around."

They saw a bird's nest on a branch. It had three eggs inside. They were blue and speckled.

One day he was on a walk and he saw a cabin. He thought it looked so strange and it made him hurry to take a closer look.

The girl agreed and said, "Yes, let's skip up and down the slide, it's more fun!"

John was scared and started to cry. His mom quickly wiped away his tears and told him not to worry. She said she would get rid of the gorilla. She grabbed a broom from the kitchen, held it high above her head, and chased the gorilla away. 

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan learn? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She learnt that she could prevent getting too hot by playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

"Maybe the string is too short," Lily says. "Or maybe the kite is too heavy."

Anna and Ben smile. They thank their mom. They are happy again. They decide to finish their show. They invite their mom to watch. They have fun with their theater.
Lily and Ben are friends. They like to play in the park. There is a big slide, a swing, and a tunnel. The tunnel is small and dark. Lily is not afraid of the tunnel, but Ben is.

Later that day, Lily's mommy got sick and had a fever. She asked Lily to help her by wiping her forehead with a cool cloth. Lily remembered the thermometer and asked if she could use it to check her mommy's temperature. Her mommy said yes and Lily carefully put the thermometer under her mommy's tongue.

Tom tried to remember where he put it. He looked under his bed, but it was not there. He looked in the closet, but it was not there either. Tom felt sad because he could not find his hockey stick.

Sara and Tom are inside the fence. They see a house. The house is small and cozy. It has a window and a door. They see a lady. The lady is kind. She smiles and waves at Sara and Tom. She comes to the gate. She opens it and talks to the dog. She tells the dog to go away. The dog listens. He stops barking and chasing. He walks away.

She painted all sorts of things. She painted the sky, trees, and flowers. She really brought the painting to life!

The next day, bunny carrot brought the carrot to the squirrel. The squirrel was so excited! He smiled at bunny carrot and thanked him for the gift.

Sarah waved bye to the orange engine and made her way home with Mommy.
Once there was a little girl who was very excited. She loved cactuses and always wanted one of her own.

As they were leaving the park, Lily's mom asked her if she had fun. Lily replied, "Yes, but I heard some people complain about the leaves. I like the leaves, they are pretty." Her mom smiled and said, "I like the leaves too, Lily."
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She had a pretty bracelet that she loved to wear every day. One day, Lily went to the park to play with her friends. While playing, she saw a little boy crying. She went to him and asked him why he was crying.

When the wind stopped, the kite came back down - much to Tommy's disappointment. 

Mia and Leo smiled and took Max to their blanket. They gave him some snacks and drinks and played with him and their toys. They had fun and made up new stories with Max. They forgot about their fear and became friends with the enormous dog.
Once upon a time, in a small house, there lived a boy named Tim and his mom. Tim loved to eat tasty food. One day, his mom made a tray of cookies for him. The cookies were round and brown.

After a few days, he found the flower. He was eager to get his power. But then, something bad happened. He slipped and fell into a deep pit, and he died.

"Can I come outside, Mummy?" she asked her mum.

So they ran inside and shouted, "Mommy, Daddy, look at this cool golf ball!" Their parents laughed and said the golf ball must belong to Grandpa.
Grandpa then came into the room and smiled. He said, "I was trying to find it for ages! You found it, Jack! Thank you!"

The moral of the story is: when we help others, we feel good too.
Once upon a time, there was a big armchair in a small room. It was an impressive armchair, with soft pillows and a strong frame. Everyone liked to sit in the armchair because it was so comfy. The armchair was next to a big window, and the sun would shine on it every day.

They walked to the trash can, but suddenly they heard a loud sound. "What was that?" asked Lily. 

Anna and her parents went to the park and she enjoyed running and playing with the other kids. She liked to show off her strong muscles.

"Please, Anne, let's play my game," said Charlie.

One day, the mom asked her daughter, "Would you like to go for a picnic today?" 

They heard Mom coming. They felt guilty. They tried to hide under the table.

Suddenly, Timmy noticed a screw on the ground. He picked it up and showed it to Sally. "Look, a screw!" he said. Sally was curious and asked, "What is a screw?" Timmy explained that it was a small metal thing that holds things together.

Tom and Jill were sad when the clumsy staff was broken. So the two friends decided to make a new staff for Clumsy.

Tom thought for a moment. He looked at the beetle, who was crawling and tapping on the glass. He said, "No, I think the beetle is sad. He wants to be free and play with his friends."

One day, he noticed a big stadium nearby, and he decided to go check it out. When he got there, he saw lots of people running around. He was curious, so he followed them to see what was happening.

Sara smiled back. She was happy that Tom liked her pebble and that he was nice to her. They decided to keep the pebble and share it. They put it in their bucket and went back to digging and looking for more shells and pebbles. They had a lot of fun at the beach.
Lila and Ben were playing in the sandbox. They had many toys to make shapes and castles. Lila liked to fill her bucket with sand and dump it on Ben's head. Ben did not like that. He said, "Stop, Lila! That is not nice. You make me dirty and sad."

Lily was sad. She did not have money to buy the book. She asked the man if he could make it cheaper. The man said no, he could not. He said the book was worth a lot of money.

Suddenly, she saw a little bird in a cell. The bird was sad and wanted to fly free. Lily asked the bird, "Why are you in the cell?" The bird replied, "I was caught by a mean man who wanted to keep me as a pet."

The wise man kept searching, but soon he forgot all about the big rock. He spent weeks searching for new mysteries. He thought he was so clever, but soon he found out he was wrong.

Suddenly, out from the stove jumped a little mouse! Alice was so surprised she screamed.

Tom and Sally giggled as they swung higher and higher. They enjoyed the fancy view of the park while they laughed and talked. 

Kate's mom smiled. She said, "Don't worry. It is for a funny reason. She broke her arm, but it's all better now!" 

The little girl was so happy, she pushed the wagon for a long time around the garden. She loved the feeling of the grass tickling her feet as she rolled around. 

The lion was so excited to try it, he drank the whole thing down in one gulp! And what do you know, it worked!

And from then on, the bird flew higher and higher every day, feeling free and happy.  The end.
Once there was a little boy called John. He was only three years old. One day, he had an idea. He wanted to swing in his garden. So he looked around for something he could use. Suddenly he saw a green rope! He took the rope and ran to the biggest tree in the garden. John demanded that his mum help him to tie the rope to the tree.

Lily and Ben felt sorry. They realized they had been selfish and naughty. They wished they had listened to mom and respected her phone. They learned that they should be happy with what they have and not take what is not theirs.

Milly was thrilled - it looked so delicious! But when she tried to eat it, she refused again. She said she did not want it. Mommy and Daddy were very confused and asked why.

Moni was sad because she scared the bee. She sat down and didn’t sing any more.

Tim looked at the dry leaves and the tiny bugs through his microscope. He was so happy to see the small world up close. And that is how Tim spent his day, sitting under the tree with his microscope, exploring the tiny world around him.
Once upon a time, in an ancient house, there lived a little girl named Olive. Olive had a big imagination. She liked to imagine she was a queen, a pirate, or even an astronaut.

"Ben, I don't like the wind," Lily said. "Can we go back, please?"

From that day on, Ann and Joe were very happy and they both learned the valuable lesson that it is more fun to share and let others play.
Once upon a time, there was an adorable little boy called Joey. His favorite thing to do was to go to the store and buy a yummy pie. All the people who worked at the store loved him because he was so charming. 

The children worked together, happily and quietly. After some time, they had made the soil look beautiful. While they were playing, they stopped quarreling and started to enjoy themselves. 

Then, she saw a ladybug flying in the air. It looked so happy! The little girl smiled.

Max was so happy! Grandma understood what he wanted, and gave him permission to use the wood. 

Lily and Ben were happy. They thanked their mom, and followed her to the kitchen. They saw a big cake with chocolate and sprinkles.

The monster got very angry and he grabbed the little girl. She was so scared that she started to cry. But the monster didn't care, he just held the girl tightly and refused to let her go. 

The bigger boat was going on a long journey and it was feeling lonely. The little boat was happy to help and offered to pass by the harbor every day to keep the bigger boat company. The bigger boat accepted the offer and was very happy.

Lily didn't want to be patient, so she decided to stretch time. She closed her eyes and imagined that time was like a rubber band that she could stretch and make longer. She counted to ten and when she opened her eyes, it felt like hours had passed.

"Tom, you made the bird go away!" Mia says. She is sad. She likes the bird.

The egg hugged the caterpillar. Then the caterpillar said, "Jump on my back and I will take you where you need to go."

But when he went to school his friends started to laugh. He didn't understand why. He was embarrassed. Then he realized his shirt was on inside-out!

One day, a little girl saw the two mice leaning together. She was so excited! She picked them up and put them into her pocket, then took them home. 

As time went on, the cherry tree grew more and more cherries. All the animals in the land came to eat the cherries and play under the cherry tree. The cherry tree was happy because it had many friends now. The cherry tree learned that being different can be a good thing. And they all lived happily ever after.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. Lily liked to pretend she was a popular princess. She lived in a big castle with her best friends, a cat and a dog.

Suddenly, he heard a loud noise! It was a big and beautiful butterfly. The tiger was so amazed; it was a sight to behold. The butterfly flew away into the sky, and the tiger watched it go. 

This story teaches us that it's important to listen to the advice of our elders. If Sammy had just listened to the advice of the older bird, he wouldn't have been in this terrible situation. Unfortunately, he was too stubborn to listen and it cost him his life.
One day, Bob heard an exciting sound coming from outside. He ran to the window and saw a motor. Bob was very eager to try it out, so he quickly opened the door and ran outside. The motor was going around and around, making a buzzing sound. Bob wanted to try to make it move like the adults did, so he sat down and tried to figure it out. 

"Okay. You can help me. But you have to be careful and gentle. These are my blocks. I like them a lot. Maybe we can share them and play together." he said.

But then, a gust of wind blew the balloon away. It snapped the string and flew up in the air. Lila watched in horror as her balloon got smaller and smaller. She jumped off the swing and tried to catch it, but it was too late. The balloon was gone.

They run back to the log. They slip and splash into the water. The bear follows them. It is fast and strong. It reaches the log.

One day, Lucy's mum asked Lucy to do something she didn't want to do. Lucy felt very sad and wanted to cry. But she decided she could be brave.

Timmy didn't know the answer, so he questioned his mom. His mom said, "That's just the way he was born, Lily." 

The poor man was sad when he realized he couldn't get a shelf because he had no money. He decided to ask his neighbour if he could borrow a shelf. The neighbour said, "Yes, you can have this old shelf, but you must attach it to the wall yourself."

The girl smiled back and said, "Hi, I'm Mia. Yes, you can swing with me. Do you want to go high?"

They started on a big train which took them to a long tunnel. Inside the tunnel everything was dark and spooky. 

Jimmy looked at Ann, with a big grin on his face and said, “We’ve made it! We won the race.�

The moral of the story is to never give up, even if the conditions seem difficult. If you stay strong and brave, then you can always find a way to make something beautiful.
Once upon a time there lived a little boy named Joe. He was only three years old and he wanted nothing more than to learn to ride a motorcycle. Joe's parents thought he was just too young to learn, so every day Joe would beg for them to teach him.

Lily felt sad. She went to her mom and said, "Tommy doesn't like my poem. What should I do?"

But as soon as he got closer, he stopped in his tracks. He noticed the sunflower was tilted and a branch had been broken off. "Oh no!" he exclaimed sadly. Then he heard a voice telling him to come closer.

One day, she decided to take a walk in the park. As she walked along, she saw some children playing together and having lots of fun. She wanted to join in the fun too, but she was too scared. 

Ella grabbed her toys and her backpack. Then, she stepped out of her house and started walking. 

Lily was happy to hear that and hugged her mom. She couldn't wait to play with her teddy bear again when it had a new arm.
Once upon a time, there was a little bird. The bird was very hungry and wanted to eat some food. So, the bird flew to a tree and saw some berries. The bird ate the berries and felt happy. 

Tom and Sam start to fight. They push and pull and shout. Mom and Dad hear them and come to see what is wrong. They are not happy either. They say to Tom and Sam, "Stop fighting right now. You are making a lot of noise and trouble. You have to unpack your bags and help us. We are here to have fun, not to fight."

Toby replied, "Yes please!" Dad dipped a brush into the paint and handed it to Toby. Toby carefully painted a big circle on the ground. He said, "Look, Daddy. I'm making a big round smooth circle!"

One day, the little girl told the whale about her wish to explore the world and see many different wonders. The whale didn't want the girl to leave, but it understood. So the whale gave the little girl a kiss, and she set off into the horizon.

From that day on, Lily and her brother played with the doll together and they felt peace in their hearts. The end.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She was very happy because her mom bought her a new dress. She wanted to wear it to her friend's birthday party. But, she couldn't find her belt. She asked her mom, "Where is my belt?"

Days passed and Polly did not forget what she saw. She warned the others again and again. "The man will hurt you if you're not careful!", she said.

"Well," said his mom, "let's try something else. What if I give you a boost?"

He grabbed the little girl’s saving pouch and ran away. The little girl shouted and tried to get it back, but the bad man had gone too far away.

Lily smiled and nodded. She gave him the pin and hugged him. "We can be friends, big lion. But no more roaring, okay?"

She runs back to the living room. She sees Tom still playing with his toys. He smiles and says, "Lily, you are back! Did you finish using the toilet?"

Hannah smiled back at him and then ran off with her vine, feeling lucky and excited to play with her new toy.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl who was playing in her garden. She loved to play in the lawn, which was filled with dandelions and butterflies.

Mummy said, "Why don't you want to go to the zoo?"

"Or maybe they don't want it anymore," Ben said. "Let's go and see."

Then, she stopped and asked her dad what all these things were. He told her that it was a new season and that everything she was seeing was very special. He also told her that each season was different and had something to offer.

One day, Julie had an idea. She wanted to invite everyone to hear her story. Julie asked her mom, and her mom said yes.

Jenny stayed in the magical world for a few weeks, until one day the news she had found in the park had disappeared. Jenny felt sad and went back home, but she never forgot what had happened in the magical world.
Once upon a time, there was an ancient castle. Inside the castle was a beautiful garden full of flowers and trees. In the garden there was a special strawberry patch. Every day the prince and princess would walk in the garden and admire the display of strawberries. 

A few days later, Max's owner asked him to help measure the garden. Max didn't know what "measure" meant, but he was excited to help. They got a long stick and put it next to the flowers. Max's owner said, "We need to measure how tall these flowers are." Max looked closely and saw that they were very tall! He barked happily and wagged his tail. Max was a good helper.
Once upon a time, there was a boy named Tim. He loved to watch videos on his tablet. One day, his mom asked him, "Tim, what do you want to watch today?" Tim thought for a moment and said, "I want to watch a video about animals."

"Good morning, Mom!" said Jim.

From that day on, Daisy and her pet bird were best friends.
Once upon a time there was a boy named Sam. He was three years old. Sam had a big white rake. One sunny morning, he went outside with it. He used it to rake the leaves in his yard. 

"Pack your hats and your water bottles," Mom said. "It is very hot today. You don't want to get sick."

"Mom, look at my tube!" he said proudly. His mom smiled at him and said, "That's so smart, Dave. You found a really cool toy!" 

When Lily reached her dad's room, she gave him the dinner. Her dad was very happy and proud of her. He told her that serving others is a good thing to do. He also reminded her to always be careful around ladders. Lily learned that helping others is important and that safety is always a priority.
Once upon a time, there was a man and a woman who loved each other very much. They decided to get married and have a big party with lots of cake and balloons. But something mysterious happened on their wedding day. The cake disappeared! Everyone looked for it, but it was nowhere to be found.

One day, Tom and Spot went to the park. They saw many flowers and trees and birds. They also saw a big pond with ducks and frogs. Tom wanted to feed the ducks some bread. He took out a slice from his bag and tore it into pieces.

Mom says, "No, Lily, the wall is not fair. It is not yours. It is ours. You have to respect it. You have to ask before you write on something. And you have to use paper, not crayons. Crayons are hard to erase. Now, come with me. We have to get a sponge and some soap. You have to help me clean the wall."

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan learn? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She learnt that she could prevent getting too hot by playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

They rode around the backyard, happy and free. They didn't see the bad guys, or their mom, who was watching them from the window and smiling.
Sara loved to play with her mom's purse. It had many things inside that seemed fun and pretty. She liked to take out the lipstick, the keys, the coins, and the sunglasses and pretend she was a grown-up lady.

Sammy grabbed a sandwich off the table and took a bite. But he was careless, and some of the food fell on the kitchen floor. Jake was surprised and said, "Be careful, Sammy!" Sammy said, "Sorry, I'll be more careful next time!"

Mommy was so happy. "A brilliant apple!" she said.

"Wow, look at these!" Ben said. He reached for a glowing blueberry.

<INSTRUCTION> What idea did Joan have? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She had an idea about going out to the park again, and playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Timmy felt sad and didn't understand why he couldn't have any candy. He started to cry, but then his mommy told him to be quiet and enjoy the silence. Timmy didn't know what silence meant, but he stopped crying and listened to the quiet sounds around him.

Lily was so happy and thanked her mom. She went back to painting with her pink paint and made a beautiful picture. The end.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to carry her teddy bear everywhere she went. One day, she saw her mommy using an iron to make her clothes flat. Lily thought the iron was very hot and shiny.

Anna was angry. She said, "No, they are not. They are mine. You are being bossy and mean. Give them back to me."

Jack: "Oh wow! Let's taste it!"

Lily's mom saw how nervous she was and asked her what was wrong. Lily told her about the ice-cream truck and how much she wanted some. Her mom said they could get some, but only if they ate their dinner first. This prevented Lily from being sad and made her very happy. She enjoyed her ice-cream with a big smile on her face.
One day, there was a team of animals. They were all friends and they loved to play together. One of the animals was a big elephant. He was amazing because he could do tricks with his trunk. 

One day, Lily was helping her mom in the garden. Suddenly, she remembered the onion her mom told her to get earlier. Lily said, "Mom, do you want me to get the onion?" Her mom nodded and said, "Yes, Lily, the onion is in the kitchen."

Both of them laughed and went off to play a game. The ugly oven was forgotten.
Once upon a time, there was a young child named Leo. Leo loved playing with all his toys, his stuffed animals and his car. One sunny day, Leo wanted to go outside and play in the park.

But even though she couldn't stay in the room, Jenna wanted to be wealthy, just like the people who owned the room. She didn't know how, but she promised herself to be nice and learn all she could, so that one day she could become wealthy.
Once upon a time there was a little boy. His name was Mark and he lived in a nice, warm home with his mom and dad. Each morning, Mark's dad would remind him to be nice and gentle when playing with the other little children.

Her mom smiled and said, "Yes, it is. But remember to be careful with it and don't drop it on your toes!" Lily giggled and said, "I won't be careless, Mommy. I promise!"
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Timmy. Timmy loved to play hide and seek with his friends. One day, Timmy was playing with his friend, Sally, and they were having so much fun.

One day, Jim said to Bob, "Hey Bob, I don't have a toy." Bob looked sad, so he said to Jim, "Don't worry, I can provide you one!" 

"OK, Ben!" Lily said. "But be careful. It looks dark and spooky over there."

"It's a special day, Jane," Mom said. "Today is your birthday, and you are surrounded by your friends. We wanted to celebrate by all wearing our special shirts."

At the park, Kari found a big tree and sat in the shade. Then she looked around and noticed another child playing with some blocks.

He was shocked to see all the junk in the room. There were all sorts of broken toys and trash strewn about. He realized it was a junkyard, and he felt even more nervous. He wanted to go back home, but his mom was encouraging him forward.

The girl was so surprised to see the bird that she didn't know what to say. 

"This is rubber! It is hard and yucky!"

The thief replied "Dear little girl, I need to wash my hands. So I need some water". Poor Lucy felt sorry for the thief and said "Ok, let me help you wash your hands".

Grandma kissed Lily and said, "I love you too, Lily. And I'm glad you're okay. But next time, if you can't find something, just ask me or Mommy. We'll help you. And remember, the drawer is not a toy. It has some things that are fragile and precious, like the necklace. It belonged to your great-grandmother. She gave it to me when I was a little girl, and I want to give it to you when you grow up. It's very special, and you have to be careful with it."

Emma said, "I think we should learn Spanish. My mom speaks it and she's really smart."

"It's a zipper," replied Mom.

The bird talked to another animal in the tree. He said, "I saw a big boat today." The animal asked, "What did it look like?" 

Slowly, he and his new friend made their way out of the cave. Once they were safely outside, they hugged each other. They were so happy and thanked each other for
Once upon a time there were two brothers named Billy and Joe. They both loved to explore the outdoors and always looked for adventure. One afternoon, they decided to take a walk in the woods.

“What did I tell you?� she replied sternly. “You shouldn’t touch things you don’t know.� 

<INSTRUCTION> What were the two sisters doing? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> The two sisters were having so much fun until they heard a loud noise. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

"I'm talking to Uncle Tom. He's coming to visit us tomorrow and we need to pick him up at the port," replied her dad.

But then, the serious policeman came and told Lily she had done something very bad. Taking things that don't belong to you is called stealing, and it's against the law. Lily felt very sad and scared. She knew she shouldn't have listened to Tommy's dare. In the end, Lily had to give the penny back and say sorry to the person who had lost it. She learned that it's always better to do the right thing, even if it's not the most exciting or daring thing to do.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved muffins and ate them every day. One day, she went to the park to play with her friends. She brought a muffin with her to eat later. 

They go to their mom and tell her what happened. Mom listens and hugs them. She says she knows where the missile is. She says she put it in the garage, because it is too big and too noisy for the house. She says the missile is expensive and they have to be careful with it.

"Let's run around the circle!" Tim says.

The pink owl realized that the mouse had helped it to suffer less and thanked its friend. The mouse smiled and the two were best friends forever.
George looked around in wonder. He had arrived at his grandmother’s house. His eyes sparkled as he noticed the beautiful flowers in the garden. He saw a small chair and he couldn’t help but climb into it.

Sam and Mia gave some clay to the pig and helped him make a pig. The pig was very happy and proud of his clay pig. He hugged Sam and Mia and thanked them again.

The young fox was so happy that he twirled and danced even faster. The sun made his fur shine like a million stars. He was much happier than he'd ever been.

The next day, Chris said, "Let's make something tasty together!" Eric liked the idea, so they went to the kitchen and made a yummy cake. They also made some yummy cookies.

The girl and her brother were both very happy with their new fragrances. They enjoyed being able to smell nice and smiled, feeling much better than before.
Once upon a time, there was a girl named Jenny. She was a very shy girl who didn't like to talk to strangers.

Lily smiles. She likes to help Tom and the other sick people. She hopes they will get well soon. She says, "You're welcome, Tom. I will come back later. Take care." She pushes the bed with wheels to another room. She goes to see another sick person. She writes in her book. She records what they need.
Lily and Ben are twins. They like to play with their toys. But sometimes they fight over the same toy. One day, they both want to play with the red car.

But, because of their kind gestures, the people of the park remembered their friendship and the sweet surprise Lucy was preparing.
Once upon a time, there was a girl named Kathy. Kathy was three years old and liked to play all the time.

It felt strange standing in the swamp. She stood there, taking in all the sights. The swamp was alive with the chirping of birds and the buzzing of bees. She felt free and happy as she explored. 

While he waited, Sam pushed his hands into his pockets and listened to the birds twitting in the trees. He smiled as he watched the flowers blowing in the wind.

And so, the naughty little monkey learned his lesson and happily ran off to play with his friends.
Sam was playing in the yard. He saw an unknown creature in the grass. He was excited and shouted: "What is this?"

Jill replied, "But why? Winning doesn't mean you have to be rude!"

"Where can we find the glue?" asked Jay.

So she reached for the lamp - but, just then, her daddy stopped her. He said it was his special lamp and that she should not touch it. So the girl stepped back, happy and sad at the same time.

"Listen, my loves," Mom says. "Fighting over toys is not nice. It only makes you unhappy and angry. You have many other toys to play with. Why don't you share and take turns? That way you can have more fun and peace."

A bird saw the boat and asked, "Why are you sad, little boat?" The boat said, "The water is dry and I cannot float. I miss the water." The bird wanted to help the boat, so it thought of an easy plan.

They walked to the man and said, "Hello, sir. We are trying to catch fish and sell them, but we have no luck. Can you tell us your secret?"

Lily's mommy came in the room and asked, "What's wrong, sweetie?"

The siblings had a disagreement. Sarah remained stubborn and refused to stop singing. Mark said he wouldn't leave until she stopped.

Soon, the little octopus became tired. He hopped back into the water and took a nap. After he woke up, he decided to go explore the ocean deeper down and went off on a new adventure.
Polly had been playing in the garden all day and it was very late. She was so tired she could barely keep her eyes open. Suddenly she heard a noise and jumped with surprise – it was her granddad! She smiled at him and ran to him with open arms. Granddad was tall and generous, and always brought something for Polly when he visited. 

The boy said, "No, I hate playing with girls. They are too nosy."

Tom and Sue felt a tickle and looked up. They were big again. They were happy and relieved.

Sue spent her days reading the books in the secret room. She read about animals, stars, and faraway places. The more Sue read, the more she learned. She became the smartest girl in her town, and everyone loved her stories.
Once upon a time, there was a little car named Cari. Cari was sad because she had no fuel. She wanted to go fast and play with her friends, but she couldn't. Cari hoped that she could find some fuel soon.

Once the chores were done, Daisy's mum taught her all about the model car. She showed her how to put it together and all the amazing features it had. Daisy was very happy and she was proud of the model car she had made.

They start to dig with their shovels. They dig and dig and dig. But they don't find any treasure. They only find a big hole.

Lily laughed. She thought it was funny to see Ben's car get smaller and smaller. She picked up the tiny car and put it in her pocket. She said, "Now I have a car too. And you have nothing. Ha ha!"

Little Bear said, "Can I make music with it too?"

"Where are you going, child?" he asked. 

The bird flew away but came back with a surprise. It had found a blue feather for Nathan! 

The mouse happily gobbled up the cheese and started to look around the tray. The tray was filled with different foods. There were treats, fruits and vegetables. The mouse hopped around the tray and tried everything.

But then, Daisy heard a bad noise coming from the subway. All the people stopped running and got very scared. Daisy saw some fire coming out of the subway. Her mom and dad told her to run away. So Daisy, her mom and dad ran very far away. 

Fred was having so much fun chasing the butterfly that he didn't notice the sun was setting. Suddenly, he realized he was lost. He tried to hop back to the pond, but he didn't know which way to go.

Ben says, "Yes, I do. Can I play with it, please?"

Ben said, "Sure, we can touch it. It is not scary. It is just a statue."

The fox did hear her. He thought she was an easy meal. He crept out of the bush and ran towards the pond.

Ben smiled and said, "This is my new bicycle."

John jumped out from his hiding spot. He told his mom, “I'm sorry! I was playing hide and seek with my rabbit!� John's mom couldn't stay mad at him, so she smiled and hugged him tight. 

The parrot and all of the other birds were very happy. They would fill the man's days with song and he would smile every time he heard their beautiful voices.
Once upon a time there was a little girl called Lisa. She was very clever and loved to play. Whenever she was outside, she loved to play with her friends.

Her mom smiled and praised her for being such a brave girl. Anna then ran off to find something else to explore.
Once there was a girl named Henry. She lived in a child's room and enjoyed painting a lot. One day, Henry wanted to paint a number. She was very anxious to see what it would look like.

Millie took her chalk into the garden and began to draw a beautiful flower. She was so proud of herself!

John thought for a moment. He didn’t want to give away his strip, but he also wanted to be nice. He said, "Yes, you can take it!" 

“Yes, of course you can cut the apples!� said Mommy.

Mom shakes her head. She is not happy. She picks up the broken block and shows it to them.

Tim put his book away and started looking for a bigger one. Soon enough, he found one with bigger print. He started to read it and he understood every word.

"Let's draw something with the pen," Sara says.

As soon as they reached the beach, Maria ran to the edge of the shore. Mum smiled as she watched Maria explore the beach. She picked up shells, ran in and out of the waves and built sandcastles.

The two boats became good friends and looked forward to seeing each other every day while they both passed the harbor. They were very content with the arrangement.
Garry was very curious. He wanted to fly in a helicopter. One day, his dad brought him to a park and they saw a colorful helicopter there. Garry ran up to it. He wanted to touch it. His dad said, "Wait, we need to polish it first." They took out a cloth and they polished the helicopter. When they were done, his dad took him into the helicopter. Garry was very happy. They flew high above the ground. The view was beautiful. Garry waved to all the people below. Later, they landed the helicopter back at the park. Garry couldn't wait to come back and fly in the helicopter again!
Once upon a time, there was a girl named Anna. She was three years old and liked to polish things. One day, there was a hurricane coming and Anna had to go inside. She looked out the window and saw everything outside was empty. She was scared of the hurricane.

The little fish thanked the turtle and they became good friends. From that day on, the little fish always looked out for his friends and made sure they were safe too.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Timmy. Timmy loved to surf in the ocean with his friends. One day, Timmy saw a big wave coming towards him. He was scared because he didn't think he could match the power of the wave. But then, he remembered his mom telling him to be brave and face his fears. So, Timmy took a deep breath and rode the wave like a brave surfer.

When she arrived, it seemed so beautiful. The trees and flowers looked so pretty. Jane was so captivated, she decided to stay and rest for a while. 

"It's perfect," said Jack. He hugged the hairy eraser and thanked his mom.

Lily was sad because she loved her dress. She didn't want to wear it with a spot on it. From that day on, Lily learned to be more careful when she painted.
Once upon a time, there was a little boy named Timmy. Timmy loved to play outside, but it was raining, so he had to stay inside. He was feeling sad and bored.

Tommy examined the cable. “It's thin,� he said.

The adorable little rabbit nodded and smiled in agreement. Then his mommy asked him to wipe the table and the two of them wiped it together. 

Mia starts to cry. She does not like her wet dress. She feels sad and messy.

But there was a problem. Someone did not like it. He was small and mean. He was always mean to the truck. He called it names and tried to break it. He was very naughty and he hated the truck so much.

The bear saw Lily and roared. It stood up on its hind legs and showed its teeth and claws. Lily was terrified. She dropped Anna and ran back to the door. But the door was shut and locked. She had left the key inside. She banged on the door and screamed for help.

The man said, “I run the market and I won’t provide for any children running around and taking things that don’t belong to them.� John was still scared and backed away slowly.

Today it was time to get ready. His owner loaded him up with a special leash so he wouldn't run away. The puppy was very anxious. He didn't like when something new was put on his body. 

As the seal swam back home, he felt happy and content. He knew that even though he couldn't find his friends at first, he was able to raise his head and see them from afar. The end.
Once upon a time, there was a boy named Timmy. Timmy really wanted a kite. He asked his mom if they could buy one. 

Mom pointed to a slide, a swing, and a jungle gym. "There's lots of fun things here! Why don't you start by tidying up your toys when you're done?"

"Look, Tom, a treasure map!" Anna says. "Let's go find the treasure!"

When they arrived at the park, Lily saw a big slide. She ran towards the slide, but her mom said, "Be careful, Lily. Don't tear your dress." Lily nodded and went up the slide.

Lily felt upset. She asked, "What am I supposed to do? It looks so yummy!" 

Mom did call Bobby's tutor, Mrs. Johnson. She was very harsh with Bobby's mom and said, "No delay, he needs to come right away." 

The boy's parents were very angry and they said they would punish him. He started to cry and begged his parents forgive him. But they were firm, they said the punishment must be given.

They play for a while, until they see a big box on the table. It is a present from their grandma. They run to the box and try to open it.

"I wish I could freeze this moment forever," she said aloud. 

Lily was very sad and very angry. She felt tears in her eyes. She did not want to play with Ben anymore. He was very mean and very grumpy.

After they were done, the tree had rainbow leaves with lots of sparkles! It was so funny and pretty. The cat and the bird were very happy with their work and they did a happy dance together.

So the two little bunnies hopped off together and went looking for an answer. They hopped over the tall grass and through the woods, until the first bunny stopped and said, "Listen! What's that sound?" 

The phone was very alert. It kept on moving and shaking, even though nobody was telling it to move. It kept on going! 

The boy shouted out with joy, “Mom, I'm here!�

The friendly cat was happy with this compromise, and they all played together happily ever after.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl named Lily. She loved to draw circles. One day, Lily showed her mommy her drawing. "Wow, Lily! I'm so proud of you! You drew a perfect circle!" said her mommy.

They put their toys away and ran to the kitchen. They washed their hands and sat at the table. Their mom gave them sandwiches and juice. They said, "Thank you, mom. We were playing farm on the mattress. We fed the animals and they were happy."

<INSTRUCTION> What did Joan learn? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> She learnt that she could prevent getting too hot by playing in the shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

They followed the triangle all around the park, running and hopping. George and Lucy were so happy. Then, the triangle just flew away. George and Lucy waved goodbye, with big smiles on their faces. The triangle was gone but the memory of it stayed with them forever.
One day, two friends were playing together. They were so happy and excited! Then, one of the friends had an idea. She said, "Let's make a song!" The other friend thought it was a great idea. They worked together to make the song.

"Where are we going?" Andy asked. 

He carefully grabbed his bow and took aim. He let his arrow go and, just like that, the rabbit was his. He was so enthusiastic, he couldn't help but do a little dance of joy. The hunter was very happy with his catch. He went home with a great big smile on his face.
There once was a boy named Jack who loved to go outside and play in the grass. One day while Jack was playing, he noticed something terrible. He noticed that most of the grass was all brown and dead-looking. 

Tom felt sorry and scared. He saw Sara's tears and heard her voice. He knew he had done something wrong. He tried to say sorry, but Sara did not listen. She ran to their mom and told her what Tom had done.

Roo listened to his mommy and hopped away from the big rocks. He found a nice warm spot in the sun and lay down. He felt happy and safe.

Lily agreed and said, "Yes, it's a pretty flag." They decided to run over and take a closer look. They saw that the flag was very cheap and they could buy it with their allowance money. They were so excited and decided to buy it together. "Let's buy this flag and share it," Timmy said.

When they finished exercising, Spot's owner gave him a fancy treat. It was a big bone covered in yummy sauce. Spot licked his lips and ate it all up. He was very happy and felt like a fancy dog. The end.
Once upon a time, there was a happy dog named Spot. Spot loved to go for walks with his owner, Lily. Lily always put Spot on his leash before they went outside. Spot liked to sniff around and explore the world. One day, Lily took Spot to a popular park where lots of other dogs were playing. Spot was excited to meet new friends. 

<INSTRUCTION> What di Joan's mother say to her? </INSTRUCTION>
<RESPONSE> Her mother said, Joan, you must take a nap and prevent getting too hot. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

Amy walked along the street and soon she found a painter. She was so excited! She asked the painter, “Can you help me?� The painter smiled at Amy and said, “Yes, I can! What do you need help with?�

The moral of the story is: if you behave well and are friendly, good things will come to you.
Once upon a time, there was a little red flower. It lived in a big garden with other flowers. The red flower was very pretty, but it was sad.

"Wow, they are so pretty!" Jen said. "Can I try them on?"

Their mother turned off the fire and took the pot off the stove. She poured the salad into a big plate and let it cool down. She said, "Now we have a dessert. It is called gajar ka halwa. It is a special treat for winter."

"No, Lily, go away!" Tom shouted, running away from her. "You are mean and greedy!"

When she reached the top of the hill, she saw the sun rise in front of her. It was big and bright and warm. It made the grass and the flowers and the trees glow. It made Lily smile and laugh. She felt happy and proud. She had seen the sun rise closer. She had done something new and amazing. She felt more wonder in her heart.
Sara and Ben like to play with copper. Copper is a shiny metal that they find in the park. They make rings and bracelets and necklaces with copper. They think copper is unique and pretty.

<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE>
You will rejoice to hear that no disaster has accompanied the
commencement of an enterprise which you have regarded with such evil
forebodings. I arrived here yesterday, and my first task is to assure
my dear sister of my welfare and increasing confidence in the success
of my undertaking. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I am already far north of London, and as I walk in the streets of
Petersburgh, I feel a cold northern breeze play upon my cheeks, which
braces my nerves and fills me with delight. Do you understand this
feeling? This breeze, which has travelled from the regions towards
which I am advancing, gives me a foretaste of those icy climes.
Inspirited by this wind of promise, my daydreams become more fervent
and vivid. I try in vain to be persuaded that the pole is the seat of
frost and desolation; it ever presents itself to my imagination as the
region of beauty and delight. There, Margaret, the sun is for ever
visible, its broad disk just skirting the horizon and diffusing a
perpetual splendour. There—for with your leave, my sister, I will put
some trust in preceding navigators—there snow and frost are banished;
and, sailing over a calm sea, we may be wafted to a land surpassing in
wonders and in beauty every region hitherto discovered on the habitable
globe. Its productions and features may be without example, as the
phenomena of the heavenly bodies undoubtedly are in those undiscovered
solitudes. What may not be expected in a country of eternal light? I
may there discover the wondrous power which attracts the needle and may
regulate a thousand celestial observations that require only this
voyage to render their seeming eccentricities consistent for ever. I
shall satiate my ardent curiosity with the sight of a part of the world
never before visited, and may tread a land never before imprinted by
the foot of man. These are my enticements, and they are sufficient to
conquer all fear of danger or death and to induce me to commence this
laborious voyage with the joy a child feels when he embarks in a little
boat, with his holiday mates, on an expedition of discovery up his
native river. But supposing all these conjectures to be false, you
cannot contest the inestimable benefit which I shall confer on all
mankind, to the last generation, by discovering a passage near the pole
to those countries, to reach which at present so many months are
requisite; or by ascertaining the secret of the magnet, which, if at
all possible, can only be effected by an undertaking such as mine. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> These reflections have dispelled the agitation with which I began my
letter, and I feel my heart glow with an enthusiasm which elevates me
to heaven, for nothing contributes so much to tranquillise the mind as
a steady purpose—a point on which the soul may fix its intellectual
eye. This expedition has been the favourite dream of my early years. I
have read with ardour the accounts of the various voyages which have
been made in the prospect of arriving at the North Pacific Ocean
through the seas which surround the pole. You may remember that a
history of all the voyages made for purposes of discovery composed the
whole of our good Uncle Thomas’ library. My education was neglected,
yet I was passionately fond of reading. These volumes were my study
day and night, and my familiarity with them increased that regret which
I had felt, as a child, on learning that my father’s dying injunction
had forbidden my uncle to allow me to embark in a seafaring life. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> These visions faded when I perused, for the first time, those poets
whose effusions entranced my soul and lifted it to heaven. I also
became a poet and for one year lived in a paradise of my own creation;
I imagined that I also might obtain a niche in the temple where the
names of Homer and Shakespeare are consecrated. You are well
acquainted with my failure and how heavily I bore the disappointment.
But just at that time I inherited the fortune of my cousin, and my
thoughts were turned into the channel of their earlier bent. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Six years have passed since I resolved on my present undertaking. I
can, even now, remember the hour from which I dedicated myself to this
great enterprise. I commenced by inuring my body to hardship. I
accompanied the whale-fishers on several expeditions to the North Sea;
I voluntarily endured cold, famine, thirst, and want of sleep; I often
worked harder than the common sailors during the day and devoted my
nights to the study of mathematics, the theory of medicine, and those
branches of physical science from which a naval adventurer might derive
the greatest practical advantage. Twice I actually hired myself as an
under-mate in a Greenland whaler, and acquitted myself to admiration. I
must own I felt a little proud when my captain offered me the second
dignity in the vessel and entreated me to remain with the greatest
earnestness, so valuable did he consider my services. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> And now, dear Margaret, do I not deserve to accomplish some great purpose?
My life might have been passed in ease and luxury, but I preferred glory to
every enticement that wealth placed in my path. Oh, that some encouraging
voice would answer in the affirmative! My courage and my resolution is
firm; but my hopes fluctuate, and my spirits are often depressed. I am
about to proceed on a long and difficult voyage, the emergencies of which
will demand all my fortitude: I am required not only to raise the spirits
of others, but sometimes to sustain my own, when theirs are failing. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This is the most favourable period for travelling in Russia. They fly
quickly over the snow in their sledges; the motion is pleasant, and, in
my opinion, far more agreeable than that of an English stagecoach. The
cold is not excessive, if you are wrapped in furs—a dress which I have
already adopted, for there is a great difference between walking the
deck and remaining seated motionless for hours, when no exercise
prevents the blood from actually freezing in your veins. I have no
ambition to lose my life on the post-road between St. Petersburgh and
Archangel. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I shall depart for the latter town in a fortnight or three weeks; and my
intention is to hire a ship there, which can easily be done by paying the
insurance for the owner, and to engage as many sailors as I think necessary
among those who are accustomed to the whale-fishing. I do not intend to
sail until the month of June; and when shall I return? Ah, dear sister, how
can I answer this question? If I succeed, many, many months, perhaps years,
will pass before you and I may meet. If I fail, you will see me again soon,
or never. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>

<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Farewell, my dear, excellent Margaret. Heaven shower down blessings on you,
and save me, that I may again and again testify my gratitude for all your
love and kindness. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> How slowly the time passes here, encompassed as I am by frost and snow!
Yet a second step is taken towards my enterprise. I have hired a
vessel and am occupied in collecting my sailors; those whom I have
already engaged appear to be men on whom I can depend and are certainly
possessed of dauntless courage. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But I have one want which I have never yet been able to satisfy, and the
absence of the object of which I now feel as a most severe evil, I have no
friend, Margaret: when I am glowing with the enthusiasm of success, there
will be none to participate my joy; if I am assailed by disappointment, no
one will endeavour to sustain me in dejection. I shall commit my thoughts
to paper, it is true; but that is a poor medium for the communication of
feeling. I desire the company of a man who could sympathise with me, whose
eyes would reply to mine. You may deem me romantic, my dear sister, but I
bitterly feel the want of a friend. I have no one near me, gentle yet
courageous, possessed of a cultivated as well as of a capacious mind, whose
tastes are like my own, to approve or amend my plans. How would such a
friend repair the faults of your poor brother! I am too ardent in execution
and too impatient of difficulties. But it is a still greater evil to me
that I am self-educated: for the first fourteen years of my life I ran wild
on a common and read nothing but our Uncle Thomas’ books of voyages.
At that age I became acquainted with the celebrated poets of our own
country; but it was only when it had ceased to be in my power to derive its
most important benefits from such a conviction that I perceived the
necessity of becoming acquainted with more languages than that of my native
country. Now I am twenty-eight and am in reality more illiterate than many
schoolboys of fifteen. It is true that I have thought more and that my
daydreams are more extended and magnificent, but they want (as the painters
call it) _keeping;_ and I greatly need a friend who would have sense
enough not to despise me as romantic, and affection enough for me to
endeavour to regulate my mind. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Well, these are useless complaints; I shall certainly find no friend on the
wide ocean, nor even here in Archangel, among merchants and seamen. Yet
some feelings, unallied to the dross of human nature, beat even in these
rugged bosoms. My lieutenant, for instance, is a man of wonderful courage
and enterprise; he is madly desirous of glory, or rather, to word my phrase
more characteristically, of advancement in his profession. He is an
Englishman, and in the midst of national and professional prejudices,
unsoftened by cultivation, retains some of the noblest endowments of
humanity. I first became acquainted with him on board a whale vessel;
finding that he was unemployed in this city, I easily engaged him to assist
in my enterprise. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The master is a person of an excellent disposition and is remarkable in the
ship for his gentleness and the mildness of his discipline. This
circumstance, added to his well-known integrity and dauntless courage, made
me very desirous to engage him. A youth passed in solitude, my best years
spent under your gentle and feminine fosterage, has so refined the
groundwork of my character that I cannot overcome an intense distaste to
the usual brutality exercised on board ship: I have never believed it to be
necessary, and when I heard of a mariner equally noted for his kindliness
of heart and the respect and obedience paid to him by his crew, I felt
myself peculiarly fortunate in being able to secure his services. I heard
of him first in rather a romantic manner, from a lady who owes to him the
happiness of her life. This, briefly, is his story. Some years ago he loved
a young Russian lady of moderate fortune, and having amassed a considerable
sum in prize-money, the father of the girl consented to the match. He saw
his mistress once before the destined ceremony; but she was bathed in
tears, and throwing herself at his feet, entreated him to spare her,
confessing at the same time that she loved another, but that he was poor,
and that her father would never consent to the union. My generous friend
reassured the suppliant, and on being informed of the name of her lover,
instantly abandoned his pursuit. He had already bought a farm with his
money, on which he had designed to pass the remainder of his life; but he
bestowed the whole on his rival, together with the remains of his
prize-money to purchase stock, and then himself solicited the young
woman’s father to consent to her marriage with her lover. But the old
man decidedly refused, thinking himself bound in honour to my friend, who,
when he found the father inexorable, quitted his country, nor returned
until he heard that his former mistress was married according to her
inclinations. “What a noble fellow!” you will exclaim. He is
so; but then he is wholly uneducated: he is as silent as a Turk, and a kind
of ignorant carelessness attends him, which, while it renders his conduct
the more astonishing, detracts from the interest and sympathy which
otherwise he would command. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Yet do not suppose, because I complain a little or because I can
conceive a consolation for my toils which I may never know, that I am
wavering in my resolutions. Those are as fixed as fate, and my voyage
is only now delayed until the weather shall permit my embarkation. The
winter has been dreadfully severe, but the spring promises well, and it
is considered as a remarkably early season, so that perhaps I may sail
sooner than I expected. I shall do nothing rashly: you know me
sufficiently to confide in my prudence and considerateness whenever the
safety of others is committed to my care. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I cannot describe to you my sensations on the near prospect of my
undertaking. It is impossible to communicate to you a conception of
the trembling sensation, half pleasurable and half fearful, with which
I am preparing to depart. I am going to unexplored regions, to “the
land of mist and snow,” but I shall kill no albatross; therefore do not
be alarmed for my safety or if I should come back to you as worn and
woeful as the “Ancient Mariner.” You will smile at my allusion, but I
will disclose a secret. I have often attributed my attachment to, my
passionate enthusiasm for, the dangerous mysteries of ocean to that
production of the most imaginative of modern poets. There is something
at work in my soul which I do not understand. I am practically
industrious—painstaking, a workman to execute with perseverance and
labour—but besides this there is a love for the marvellous, a belief
in the marvellous, intertwined in all my projects, which hurries me out
of the common pathways of men, even to the wild sea and unvisited
regions I am about to explore. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But to return to dearer considerations. Shall I meet you again, after
having traversed immense seas, and returned by the most southern cape of
Africa or America? I dare not expect such success, yet I cannot bear to
look on the reverse of the picture. Continue for the present to write to
me by every opportunity: I may receive your letters on some occasions when
I need them most to support my spirits. I love you very tenderly. 
Remember me with affection, should you never hear from me again. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I write a few lines in haste to say that I am safe—and well advanced
on my voyage. This letter will reach England by a merchantman now on
its homeward voyage from Archangel; more fortunate than I, who may not
see my native land, perhaps, for many years. I am, however, in good
spirits: my men are bold and apparently firm of purpose, nor do the
floating sheets of ice that continually pass us, indicating the dangers
of the region towards which we are advancing, appear to dismay them. We
have already reached a very high latitude; but it is the height of
summer, and although not so warm as in England, the southern gales,
which blow us speedily towards those shores which I so ardently desire
to attain, breathe a degree of renovating warmth which I had not
expected. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> No incidents have hitherto befallen us that would make a figure in a
letter. One or two stiff gales and the springing of a leak are
accidents which experienced navigators scarcely remember to record, and
I shall be well content if nothing worse happen to us during our voyage. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Adieu, my dear Margaret. Be assured that for my own sake, as well as
yours, I will not rashly encounter danger. I will be cool,
persevering, and prudent. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But success _shall_ crown my endeavours. Wherefore not? Thus far I
have gone, tracing a secure way over the pathless seas, the very stars
themselves being witnesses and testimonies of my triumph. Why not
still proceed over the untamed yet obedient element? What can stop the
determined heart and resolved will of man? </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> So strange an accident has happened to us that I cannot forbear
recording it, although it is very probable that you will see me before
these papers can come into your possession. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Last Monday (July 31st) we were nearly surrounded by ice, which closed
in the ship on all sides, scarcely leaving her the sea-room in which
she floated. Our situation was somewhat dangerous, especially as we
were compassed round by a very thick fog. We accordingly lay to,
hoping that some change would take place in the atmosphere and weather. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> About two o’clock the mist cleared away, and we beheld, stretched out
in every direction, vast and irregular plains of ice, which seemed to
have no end. Some of my comrades groaned, and my own mind began to
grow watchful with anxious thoughts, when a strange sight suddenly
attracted our attention and diverted our solicitude from our own
situation. We perceived a low carriage, fixed on a sledge and drawn by
dogs, pass on towards the north, at the distance of half a mile; a
being which had the shape of a man, but apparently of gigantic stature,
sat in the sledge and guided the dogs. We watched the rapid progress
of the traveller with our telescopes until he was lost among the
distant inequalities of the ice. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This appearance excited our unqualified wonder. We were, as we believed,
many hundred miles from any land; but this apparition seemed to denote that
it was not, in reality, so distant as we had supposed. Shut in, however, by
ice, it was impossible to follow his track, which we had observed with the
greatest attention. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> About two hours after this occurrence we heard the ground sea, and before
night the ice broke and freed our ship. We, however, lay to until the
morning, fearing to encounter in the dark those large loose masses which
float about after the breaking up of the ice. I profited of this time to
rest for a few hours. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In the morning, however, as soon as it was light, I went upon deck and
found all the sailors busy on one side of the vessel, apparently
talking to someone in the sea. It was, in fact, a sledge, like that we
had seen before, which had drifted towards us in the night on a large
fragment of ice. Only one dog remained alive; but there was a human
being within it whom the sailors were persuading to enter the vessel.
He was not, as the other traveller seemed to be, a savage inhabitant of
some undiscovered island, but a European. When I appeared on deck the
master said, “Here is our captain, and he will not allow you to perish
on the open sea.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> On perceiving me, the stranger addressed me in English, although with a
foreign accent. “Before I come on board your vessel,” said he,
“will you have the kindness to inform me whither you are bound?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> You may conceive my astonishment on hearing such a question addressed
to me from a man on the brink of destruction and to whom I should have
supposed that my vessel would have been a resource which he would not
have exchanged for the most precious wealth the earth can afford. I
replied, however, that we were on a voyage of discovery towards the
northern pole. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Upon hearing this he appeared satisfied and consented to come on board.
Good God! Margaret, if you had seen the man who thus capitulated for
his safety, your surprise would have been boundless. His limbs were
nearly frozen, and his body dreadfully emaciated by fatigue and
suffering. I never saw a man in so wretched a condition. We attempted
to carry him into the cabin, but as soon as he had quitted the fresh
air he fainted. We accordingly brought him back to the deck and
restored him to animation by rubbing him with brandy and forcing him to
swallow a small quantity. As soon as he showed signs of life we
wrapped him up in blankets and placed him near the chimney of the
kitchen stove. By slow degrees he recovered and ate a little soup,
which restored him wonderfully. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Two days passed in this manner before he was able to speak, and I often
feared that his sufferings had deprived him of understanding. When he
had in some measure recovered, I removed him to my own cabin and
attended on him as much as my duty would permit. I never saw a more
interesting creature: his eyes have generally an expression of
wildness, and even madness, but there are moments when, if anyone
performs an act of kindness towards him or does him any the most
trifling service, his whole countenance is lighted up, as it were, with
a beam of benevolence and sweetness that I never saw equalled. But he
is generally melancholy and despairing, and sometimes he gnashes his
teeth, as if impatient of the weight of woes that oppresses him. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When my guest was a little recovered I had great trouble to keep off
the men, who wished to ask him a thousand questions; but I would not
allow him to be tormented by their idle curiosity, in a state of body
and mind whose restoration evidently depended upon entire repose.
Once, however, the lieutenant asked why he had come so far upon the ice
in so strange a vehicle. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Then I fancy we have seen him, for the day before we picked you up we
saw some dogs drawing a sledge, with a man in it, across the ice.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This aroused the stranger’s attention, and he asked a multitude of
questions concerning the route which the dæmon, as he called him, had
pursued. Soon after, when he was alone with me, he said, “I have,
doubtless, excited your curiosity, as well as that of these good
people; but you are too considerate to make inquiries.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Soon after this he inquired if I thought that the breaking up of the
ice had destroyed the other sledge. I replied that I could not answer
with any degree of certainty, for the ice had not broken until near
midnight, and the traveller might have arrived at a place of safety
before that time; but of this I could not judge. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> From this time a new spirit of life animated the decaying frame of the
stranger. He manifested the greatest eagerness to be upon deck to watch for
the sledge which had before appeared; but I have persuaded him to remain in
the cabin, for he is far too weak to sustain the rawness of the atmosphere.
I have promised that someone should watch for him and give him instant
notice if any new object should appear in sight. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Such is my journal of what relates to this strange occurrence up to the
present day. The stranger has gradually improved in health but is very
silent and appears uneasy when anyone except myself enters his cabin.
Yet his manners are so conciliating and gentle that the sailors are all
interested in him, although they have had very little communication
with him. For my own part, I begin to love him as a brother, and his
constant and deep grief fills me with sympathy and compassion. He must
have been a noble creature in his better days, being even now in wreck
so attractive and amiable. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I said in one of my letters, my dear Margaret, that I should find no friend
on the wide ocean; yet I have found a man who, before his spirit had been
broken by misery, I should have been happy to have possessed as the brother
of my heart. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> My affection for my guest increases every day. He excites at once my
admiration and my pity to an astonishing degree. How can I see so
noble a creature destroyed by misery without feeling the most poignant
grief? He is so gentle, yet so wise; his mind is so cultivated, and
when he speaks, although his words are culled with the choicest art,
yet they flow with rapidity and unparalleled eloquence. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He is now much recovered from his illness and is continually on the deck,
apparently watching for the sledge that preceded his own. Yet, although
unhappy, he is not so utterly occupied by his own misery but that he
interests himself deeply in the projects of others. He has frequently
conversed with me on mine, which I have communicated to him without
disguise. He entered attentively into all my arguments in favour of my
eventual success and into every minute detail of the measures I had taken
to secure it. I was easily led by the sympathy which he evinced to use the
language of my heart, to give utterance to the burning ardour of my soul
and to say, with all the fervour that warmed me, how gladly I would
sacrifice my fortune, my existence, my every hope, to the furtherance of my
enterprise. One man’s life or death were but a small price to pay for
the acquirement of the knowledge which I sought, for the dominion I should
acquire and transmit over the elemental foes of our race. As I spoke, a
dark gloom spread over my listener’s countenance. At first I
perceived that he tried to suppress his emotion; he placed his hands before
his eyes, and my voice quivered and failed me as I beheld tears trickle
fast from between his fingers; a groan burst from his heaving breast. I
paused; at length he spoke, in broken accents: “Unhappy man! Do you
share my madness? Have you drunk also of the intoxicating draught? Hear me;
let me reveal my tale, and you will dash the cup from your lips!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Such words, you may imagine, strongly excited my curiosity; but the
paroxysm of grief that had seized the stranger overcame his weakened
powers, and many hours of repose and tranquil conversation were
necessary to restore his composure. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Having conquered the violence of his feelings, he appeared to despise
himself for being the slave of passion; and quelling the dark tyranny of
despair, he led me again to converse concerning myself personally. He asked
me the history of my earlier years. The tale was quickly told, but it
awakened various trains of reflection. I spoke of my desire of finding a
friend, of my thirst for a more intimate sympathy with a fellow mind than
had ever fallen to my lot, and expressed my conviction that a man could
boast of little happiness who did not enjoy this blessing. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I agree with you,” replied the stranger; “we are
unfashioned creatures, but half made up, if one wiser, better, dearer than
ourselves—such a friend ought to be—do not lend his aid to
perfectionate our weak and faulty natures. I once had a friend, the most
noble of human creatures, and am entitled, therefore, to judge respecting
friendship. You have hope, and the world before you, and have no cause for
despair. But I—I have lost everything and cannot begin life
anew.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As he said this his countenance became expressive of a calm, settled
grief that touched me to the heart. But he was silent and presently
retired to his cabin. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Even broken in spirit as he is, no one can feel more deeply than he
does the beauties of nature. The starry sky, the sea, and every sight
afforded by these wonderful regions seem still to have the power of
elevating his soul from earth. Such a man has a double existence: he
may suffer misery and be overwhelmed by disappointments, yet when he
has retired into himself, he will be like a celestial spirit that has a
halo around him, within whose circle no grief or folly ventures. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Will you smile at the enthusiasm I express concerning this divine
wanderer? You would not if you saw him. You have been tutored and
refined by books and retirement from the world, and you are therefore
somewhat fastidious; but this only renders you the more fit to
appreciate the extraordinary merits of this wonderful man. Sometimes I
have endeavoured to discover what quality it is which he possesses that
elevates him so immeasurably above any other person I ever knew. I
believe it to be an intuitive discernment, a quick but never-failing
power of judgment, a penetration into the causes of things, unequalled
for clearness and precision; add to this a facility of expression and a
voice whose varied intonations are soul-subduing music. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Yesterday the stranger said to me, “You may easily perceive, Captain
Walton, that I have suffered great and unparalleled misfortunes. I had
determined at one time that the memory of these evils should die with
me, but you have won me to alter my determination. You seek for
knowledge and wisdom, as I once did; and I ardently hope that the
gratification of your wishes may not be a serpent to sting you, as mine
has been. I do not know that the relation of my disasters will be
useful to you; yet, when I reflect that you are pursuing the same
course, exposing yourself to the same dangers which have rendered me
what I am, I imagine that you may deduce an apt moral from my tale, one
that may direct you if you succeed in your undertaking and console you
in case of failure. Prepare to hear of occurrences which are usually
deemed marvellous. Were we among the tamer scenes of nature I might
fear to encounter your unbelief, perhaps your ridicule; but many things
will appear possible in these wild and mysterious regions which would
provoke the laughter of those unacquainted with the ever-varied powers
of nature; nor can I doubt but that my tale conveys in its series
internal evidence of the truth of the events of which it is composed.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> You may easily imagine that I was much gratified by the offered
communication, yet I could not endure that he should renew his grief by
a recital of his misfortunes. I felt the greatest eagerness to hear
the promised narrative, partly from curiosity and partly from a strong
desire to ameliorate his fate if it were in my power. I expressed
these feelings in my answer. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I thank you,” he replied, “for your sympathy, but it is
useless; my fate is nearly fulfilled. I wait but for one event, and then I
shall repose in peace. I understand your feeling,” continued he,
perceiving that I wished to interrupt him; “but you are mistaken, my
friend, if thus you will allow me to name you; nothing can alter my
destiny; listen to my history, and you will perceive how irrevocably it is
determined.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He then told me that he would commence his narrative the next day when I
should be at leisure. This promise drew from me the warmest thanks. I have
resolved every night, when I am not imperatively occupied by my duties, to
record, as nearly as possible in his own words, what he has related during
the day. If I should be engaged, I will at least make notes. This
manuscript will doubtless afford you the greatest pleasure; but to me, who
know him, and who hear it from his own lips—with what interest and
sympathy shall I read it in some future day! Even now, as I commence my
task, his full-toned voice swells in my ears; his lustrous eyes dwell on me
with all their melancholy sweetness; I see his thin hand raised in
animation, while the lineaments of his face are irradiated by the soul
within. Strange and harrowing must be his story, frightful the storm which
embraced the gallant vessel on its course and wrecked it—thus! </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I am by birth a Genevese, and my family is one of the most
distinguished of that republic. My ancestors had been for many years
counsellors and syndics, and my father had filled several public
situations with honour and reputation. He was respected by all who
knew him for his integrity and indefatigable attention to public
business. He passed his younger days perpetually occupied by the
affairs of his country; a variety of circumstances had prevented his
marrying early, nor was it until the decline of life that he became a
husband and the father of a family. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As the circumstances of his marriage illustrate his character, I cannot
refrain from relating them. One of his most intimate friends was a
merchant who, from a flourishing state, fell, through numerous
mischances, into poverty. This man, whose name was Beaufort, was of a
proud and unbending disposition and could not bear to live in poverty
and oblivion in the same country where he had formerly been
distinguished for his rank and magnificence. Having paid his debts,
therefore, in the most honourable manner, he retreated with his
daughter to the town of Lucerne, where he lived unknown and in
wretchedness. My father loved Beaufort with the truest friendship and
was deeply grieved by his retreat in these unfortunate circumstances.
He bitterly deplored the false pride which led his friend to a conduct
so little worthy of the affection that united them. He lost no time in
endeavouring to seek him out, with the hope of persuading him to begin
the world again through his credit and assistance. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Beaufort had taken effectual measures to conceal himself, and it was ten
months before my father discovered his abode. Overjoyed at this discovery,
he hastened to the house, which was situated in a mean street near the
Reuss. But when he entered, misery and despair alone welcomed him. Beaufort
had saved but a very small sum of money from the wreck of his fortunes, but
it was sufficient to provide him with sustenance for some months, and in
the meantime he hoped to procure some respectable employment in a
merchant’s house. The interval was, consequently, spent in inaction;
his grief only became more deep and rankling when he had leisure for
reflection, and at length it took so fast hold of his mind that at the end
of three months he lay on a bed of sickness, incapable of any exertion. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> His daughter attended him with the greatest tenderness, but she saw
with despair that their little fund was rapidly decreasing and that
there was no other prospect of support. But Caroline Beaufort
possessed a mind of an uncommon mould, and her courage rose to support
her in her adversity. She procured plain work; she plaited straw and
by various means contrived to earn a pittance scarcely sufficient to
support life. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Several months passed in this manner. Her father grew worse; her time
was more entirely occupied in attending him; her means of subsistence
decreased; and in the tenth month her father died in her arms, leaving
her an orphan and a beggar. This last blow overcame her, and she knelt
by Beaufort’s coffin weeping bitterly, when my father entered the
chamber. He came like a protecting spirit to the poor girl, who
committed herself to his care; and after the interment of his friend he
conducted her to Geneva and placed her under the protection of a
relation. Two years after this event Caroline became his wife. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> There was a considerable difference between the ages of my parents, but
this circumstance seemed to unite them only closer in bonds of devoted
affection. There was a sense of justice in my father’s upright mind
which rendered it necessary that he should approve highly to love
strongly. Perhaps during former years he had suffered from the
late-discovered unworthiness of one beloved and so was disposed to set
a greater value on tried worth. There was a show of gratitude and
worship in his attachment to my mother, differing wholly from the
doting fondness of age, for it was inspired by reverence for her
virtues and a desire to be the means of, in some degree, recompensing
her for the sorrows she had endured, but which gave inexpressible grace
to his behaviour to her. Everything was made to yield to her wishes
and her convenience. He strove to shelter her, as a fair exotic is
sheltered by the gardener, from every rougher wind and to surround her
with all that could tend to excite pleasurable emotion in her soft and
benevolent mind. Her health, and even the tranquillity of her hitherto
constant spirit, had been shaken by what she had gone through. During
the two years that had elapsed previous to their marriage my father had
gradually relinquished all his public functions; and immediately after
their union they sought the pleasant climate of Italy, and the change
of scene and interest attendant on a tour through that land of wonders,
as a restorative for her weakened frame. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> From Italy they visited Germany and France. I, their eldest child, was born
at Naples, and as an infant accompanied them in their rambles. I remained
for several years their only child. Much as they were attached to each
other, they seemed to draw inexhaustible stores of affection from a very
mine of love to bestow them upon me. My mother’s tender caresses and
my father’s smile of benevolent pleasure while regarding me are my
first recollections. I was their plaything and their idol, and something
better—their child, the innocent and helpless creature bestowed on
them by Heaven, whom to bring up to good, and whose future lot it was in
their hands to direct to happiness or misery, according as they fulfilled
their duties towards me. With this deep consciousness of what they owed
towards the being to which they had given life, added to the active spirit
of tenderness that animated both, it may be imagined that while during
every hour of my infant life I received a lesson of patience, of charity,
and of self-control, I was so guided by a silken cord that all seemed but
one train of enjoyment to me. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> For a long time I was their only care. My mother had much desired to have a
daughter, but I continued their single offspring. When I was about five
years old, while making an excursion beyond the frontiers of Italy, they
passed a week on the shores of the Lake of Como. Their benevolent
disposition often made them enter the cottages of the poor. This, to my
mother, was more than a duty; it was a necessity, a
passion—remembering what she had suffered, and how she had been
relieved—for her to act in her turn the guardian angel to the
afflicted. During one of their walks a poor cot in the foldings of a vale
attracted their notice as being singularly disconsolate, while the number
of half-clothed children gathered about it spoke of penury in its worst
shape. One day, when my father had gone by himself to Milan, my mother,
accompanied by me, visited this abode. She found a peasant and his wife,
hard working, bent down by care and labour, distributing a scanty meal to
five hungry babes. Among these there was one which attracted my mother far
above all the rest. She appeared of a different stock. The four others were
dark-eyed, hardy little vagrants; this child was thin and very fair. Her
hair was the brightest living gold, and despite the poverty of her
clothing, seemed to set a crown of distinction on her head. Her brow was
clear and ample, her blue eyes cloudless, and her lips and the moulding of
her face so expressive of sensibility and sweetness that none could behold
her without looking on her as of a distinct species, a being heaven-sent,
and bearing a celestial stamp in all her features. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The peasant woman, perceiving that my mother fixed eyes of wonder and
admiration on this lovely girl, eagerly communicated her history. She was
not her child, but the daughter of a Milanese nobleman. Her mother was a
German and had died on giving her birth. The infant had been placed with
these good people to nurse: they were better off then. They had not been
long married, and their eldest child was but just born. The father of their
charge was one of those Italians nursed in the memory of the antique glory
of Italy—one among the _schiavi ognor frementi,_ who exerted
himself to obtain the liberty of his country. He became the victim of its
weakness. Whether he had died or still lingered in the dungeons of Austria
was not known. His property was confiscated; his child became an orphan and
a beggar. She continued with her foster parents and bloomed in their rude
abode, fairer than a garden rose among dark-leaved brambles. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When my father returned from Milan, he found playing with me in the hall of
our villa a child fairer than pictured cherub—a creature who seemed
to shed radiance from her looks and whose form and motions were lighter
than the chamois of the hills. The apparition was soon explained. With his
permission my mother prevailed on her rustic guardians to yield their
charge to her. They were fond of the sweet orphan. Her presence had seemed
a blessing to them, but it would be unfair to her to keep her in poverty
and want when Providence afforded her such powerful protection. They
consulted their village priest, and the result was that Elizabeth Lavenza
became the inmate of my parents’ house—my more than
sister—the beautiful and adored companion of all my occupations and
my pleasures. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Everyone loved Elizabeth. The passionate and almost reverential
attachment with which all regarded her became, while I shared it, my
pride and my delight. On the evening previous to her being brought to
my home, my mother had said playfully, “I have a pretty present for my
Victor—tomorrow he shall have it.” And when, on the morrow, she
presented Elizabeth to me as her promised gift, I, with childish
seriousness, interpreted her words literally and looked upon Elizabeth
as mine—mine to protect, love, and cherish. All praises bestowed on
her I received as made to a possession of my own. We called each other
familiarly by the name of cousin. No word, no expression could body
forth the kind of relation in which she stood to me—my more than
sister, since till death she was to be mine only. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We were brought up together; there was not quite a year difference in
our ages. I need not say that we were strangers to any species of
disunion or dispute. Harmony was the soul of our companionship, and
the diversity and contrast that subsisted in our characters drew us
nearer together. Elizabeth was of a calmer and more concentrated
disposition; but, with all my ardour, I was capable of a more intense
application and was more deeply smitten with the thirst for knowledge.
She busied herself with following the aerial creations of the poets;
and in the majestic and wondrous scenes which surrounded our Swiss
home —the sublime shapes of the mountains, the changes of the seasons,
tempest and calm, the silence of winter, and the life and turbulence of
our Alpine summers—she found ample scope for admiration and delight.
While my companion contemplated with a serious and satisfied spirit the
magnificent appearances of things, I delighted in investigating their
causes. The world was to me a secret which I desired to divine.
Curiosity, earnest research to learn the hidden laws of nature,
gladness akin to rapture, as they were unfolded to me, are among the
earliest sensations I can remember. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> On the birth of a second son, my junior by seven years, my parents gave
up entirely their wandering life and fixed themselves in their native
country. We possessed a house in Geneva, and a _campagne_ on Belrive,
the eastern shore of the lake, at the distance of rather more than a
league from the city. We resided principally in the latter, and the
lives of my parents were passed in considerable seclusion. It was my
temper to avoid a crowd and to attach myself fervently to a few. I was
indifferent, therefore, to my school-fellows in general; but I united
myself in the bonds of the closest friendship to one among them. Henry
Clerval was the son of a merchant of Geneva. He was a boy of singular
talent and fancy. He loved enterprise, hardship, and even danger for
its own sake. He was deeply read in books of chivalry and romance. He
composed heroic songs and began to write many a tale of enchantment and
knightly adventure. He tried to make us act plays and to enter into
masquerades, in which the characters were drawn from the heroes of
Roncesvalles, of the Round Table of King Arthur, and the chivalrous
train who shed their blood to redeem the holy sepulchre from the hands
of the infidels. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> No human being could have passed a happier childhood than myself. My
parents were possessed by the very spirit of kindness and indulgence.
We felt that they were not the tyrants to rule our lot according to
their caprice, but the agents and creators of all the many delights
which we enjoyed. When I mingled with other families I distinctly
discerned how peculiarly fortunate my lot was, and gratitude assisted
the development of filial love. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> My temper was sometimes violent, and my passions vehement; but by some
law in my temperature they were turned not towards childish pursuits
but to an eager desire to learn, and not to learn all things
indiscriminately. I confess that neither the structure of languages,
nor the code of governments, nor the politics of various states
possessed attractions for me. It was the secrets of heaven and earth
that I desired to learn; and whether it was the outward substance of
things or the inner spirit of nature and the mysterious soul of man
that occupied me, still my inquiries were directed to the metaphysical,
or in its highest sense, the physical secrets of the world. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Meanwhile Clerval occupied himself, so to speak, with the moral
relations of things. The busy stage of life, the virtues of heroes,
and the actions of men were his theme; and his hope and his dream was
to become one among those whose names are recorded in story as the
gallant and adventurous benefactors of our species. The saintly soul
of Elizabeth shone like a shrine-dedicated lamp in our peaceful home.
Her sympathy was ours; her smile, her soft voice, the sweet glance of
her celestial eyes, were ever there to bless and animate us. She was
the living spirit of love to soften and attract; I might have become
sullen in my study, rough through the ardour of my nature, but that
she was there to subdue me to a semblance of her own gentleness. And
Clerval—could aught ill entrench on the noble spirit of Clerval? Yet
he might not have been so perfectly humane, so thoughtful in his
generosity, so full of kindness and tenderness amidst his passion for
adventurous exploit, had she not unfolded to him the real loveliness of
beneficence and made the doing good the end and aim of his soaring
ambition. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I feel exquisite pleasure in dwelling on the recollections of childhood,
before misfortune had tainted my mind and changed its bright visions of
extensive usefulness into gloomy and narrow reflections upon self. Besides,
in drawing the picture of my early days, I also record those events which
led, by insensible steps, to my after tale of misery, for when I would
account to myself for the birth of that passion which afterwards ruled my
destiny I find it arise, like a mountain river, from ignoble and almost
forgotten sources; but, swelling as it proceeded, it became the torrent
which, in its course, has swept away all my hopes and joys. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Natural philosophy is the genius that has regulated my fate; I desire,
therefore, in this narration, to state those facts which led to my
predilection for that science. When I was thirteen years of age we all went
on a party of pleasure to the baths near Thonon; the inclemency of the
weather obliged us to remain a day confined to the inn. In this house I
chanced to find a volume of the works of Cornelius Agrippa. I opened it
with apathy; the theory which he attempts to demonstrate and the wonderful
facts which he relates soon changed this feeling into enthusiasm. A new
light seemed to dawn upon my mind, and bounding with joy, I communicated my
discovery to my father. My father looked carelessly at the title page of my
book and said, “Ah! Cornelius Agrippa! My dear Victor, do not waste
your time upon this; it is sad trash.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> If, instead of this remark, my father had taken the pains to explain to me
that the principles of Agrippa had been entirely exploded and that a modern
system of science had been introduced which possessed much greater powers
than the ancient, because the powers of the latter were chimerical, while
those of the former were real and practical, under such circumstances I
should certainly have thrown Agrippa aside and have contented my
imagination, warmed as it was, by returning with greater ardour to my
former studies. It is even possible that the train of my ideas would never
have received the fatal impulse that led to my ruin. But the cursory glance
my father had taken of my volume by no means assured me that he was
acquainted with its contents, and I continued to read with the greatest
avidity. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When I returned home my first care was to procure the whole works of this
author, and afterwards of Paracelsus and Albertus Magnus. I read and
studied the wild fancies of these writers with delight; they appeared to me
treasures known to few besides myself. I have described myself as always
having been imbued with a fervent longing to penetrate the secrets of
nature. In spite of the intense labour and wonderful discoveries of modern
philosophers, I always came from my studies discontented and unsatisfied.
Sir Isaac Newton is said to have avowed that he felt like a child picking
up shells beside the great and unexplored ocean of truth. Those of his
successors in each branch of natural philosophy with whom I was acquainted
appeared even to my boy’s apprehensions as tyros engaged in the same
pursuit. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The untaught peasant beheld the elements around him and was acquainted
with their practical uses. The most learned philosopher knew little
more. He had partially unveiled the face of Nature, but her immortal
lineaments were still a wonder and a mystery. He might dissect,
anatomise, and give names; but, not to speak of a final cause, causes
in their secondary and tertiary grades were utterly unknown to him. I
had gazed upon the fortifications and impediments that seemed to keep
human beings from entering the citadel of nature, and rashly and
ignorantly I had repined. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But here were books, and here were men who had penetrated deeper and knew
more. I took their word for all that they averred, and I became their
disciple. It may appear strange that such should arise in the eighteenth
century; but while I followed the routine of education in the schools of
Geneva, I was, to a great degree, self-taught with regard to my favourite
studies. My father was not scientific, and I was left to struggle with a
child’s blindness, added to a student’s thirst for knowledge.
Under the guidance of my new preceptors I entered with the greatest
diligence into the search of the philosopher’s stone and the elixir
of life; but the latter soon obtained my undivided attention. Wealth was an
inferior object, but what glory would attend the discovery if I could
banish disease from the human frame and render man invulnerable to any but
a violent death! </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Nor were these my only visions. The raising of ghosts or devils was a
promise liberally accorded by my favourite authors, the fulfilment of which
I most eagerly sought; and if my incantations were always unsuccessful, I
attributed the failure rather to my own inexperience and mistake than to a
want of skill or fidelity in my instructors. And thus for a time I was
occupied by exploded systems, mingling, like an unadept, a thousand
contradictory theories and floundering desperately in a very slough of
multifarious knowledge, guided by an ardent imagination and childish
reasoning, till an accident again changed the current of my ideas. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When I was about fifteen years old we had retired to our house near
Belrive, when we witnessed a most violent and terrible thunderstorm. It
advanced from behind the mountains of Jura, and the thunder burst at once
with frightful loudness from various quarters of the heavens. I remained,
while the storm lasted, watching its progress with curiosity and delight.
As I stood at the door, on a sudden I beheld a stream of fire issue from an
old and beautiful oak which stood about twenty yards from our house; and so
soon as the dazzling light vanished, the oak had disappeared, and nothing
remained but a blasted stump. When we visited it the next morning, we found
the tree shattered in a singular manner. It was not splintered by the
shock, but entirely reduced to thin ribbons of wood. I never beheld
anything so utterly destroyed. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Before this I was not unacquainted with the more obvious laws of
electricity. On this occasion a man of great research in natural
philosophy was with us, and excited by this catastrophe, he entered on
the explanation of a theory which he had formed on the subject of
electricity and galvanism, which was at once new and astonishing to me.
All that he said threw greatly into the shade Cornelius Agrippa,
Albertus Magnus, and Paracelsus, the lords of my imagination; but by
some fatality the overthrow of these men disinclined me to pursue my
accustomed studies. It seemed to me as if nothing would or could ever
be known. All that had so long engaged my attention suddenly grew
despicable. By one of those caprices of the mind which we are perhaps
most subject to in early youth, I at once gave up my former
occupations, set down natural history and all its progeny as a deformed
and abortive creation, and entertained the greatest disdain for a
would-be science which could never even step within the threshold of
real knowledge. In this mood of mind I betook myself to the
mathematics and the branches of study appertaining to that science as
being built upon secure foundations, and so worthy of my consideration. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Thus strangely are our souls constructed, and by such slight ligaments
are we bound to prosperity or ruin. When I look back, it seems to me
as if this almost miraculous change of inclination and will was the
immediate suggestion of the guardian angel of my life—the last effort
made by the spirit of preservation to avert the storm that was even
then hanging in the stars and ready to envelop me. Her victory was
announced by an unusual tranquillity and gladness of soul which
followed the relinquishing of my ancient and latterly tormenting
studies. It was thus that I was to be taught to associate evil with
their prosecution, happiness with their disregard. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was a strong effort of the spirit of good, but it was ineffectual.
Destiny was too potent, and her immutable laws had decreed my utter and
terrible destruction. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When I had attained the age of seventeen my parents resolved that I
should become a student at the university of Ingolstadt. I had
hitherto attended the schools of Geneva, but my father thought it
necessary for the completion of my education that I should be made
acquainted with other customs than those of my native country. My
departure was therefore fixed at an early date, but before the day
resolved upon could arrive, the first misfortune of my life
occurred—an omen, as it were, of my future misery. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth had caught the scarlet fever; her illness was severe, and she was
in the greatest danger. During her illness many arguments had been urged to
persuade my mother to refrain from attending upon her. She had at first
yielded to our entreaties, but when she heard that the life of her
favourite was menaced, she could no longer control her anxiety. She
attended her sickbed; her watchful attentions triumphed over the malignity
of the distemper—Elizabeth was saved, but the consequences of this
imprudence were fatal to her preserver. On the third day my mother
sickened; her fever was accompanied by the most alarming symptoms, and the
looks of her medical attendants prognosticated the worst event. On her
deathbed the fortitude and benignity of this best of women did not desert
her. She joined the hands of Elizabeth and myself. “My
children,” she said, “my firmest hopes of future happiness were
placed on the prospect of your union. This expectation will now be the
consolation of your father. Elizabeth, my love, you must supply my place to
my younger children. Alas! I regret that I am taken from you; and, happy
and beloved as I have been, is it not hard to quit you all? But these are
not thoughts befitting me; I will endeavour to resign myself cheerfully to
death and will indulge a hope of meeting you in another world.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She died calmly, and her countenance expressed affection even in death.
I need not describe the feelings of those whose dearest ties are rent
by that most irreparable evil, the void that presents itself to the
soul, and the despair that is exhibited on the countenance. It is so
long before the mind can persuade itself that she whom we saw every day
and whose very existence appeared a part of our own can have departed
for ever—that the brightness of a beloved eye can have been
extinguished and the sound of a voice so familiar and dear to the ear
can be hushed, never more to be heard. These are the reflections of
the first days; but when the lapse of time proves the reality of the
evil, then the actual bitterness of grief commences. Yet from whom has
not that rude hand rent away some dear connection? And why should I
describe a sorrow which all have felt, and must feel? The time at
length arrives when grief is rather an indulgence than a necessity; and
the smile that plays upon the lips, although it may be deemed a
sacrilege, is not banished. My mother was dead, but we had still
duties which we ought to perform; we must continue our course with the
rest and learn to think ourselves fortunate whilst one remains whom the
spoiler has not seized. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> My departure for Ingolstadt, which had been deferred by these events,
was now again determined upon. I obtained from my father a respite of
some weeks. It appeared to me sacrilege so soon to leave the repose,
akin to death, of the house of mourning and to rush into the thick of
life. I was new to sorrow, but it did not the less alarm me. I was
unwilling to quit the sight of those that remained to me, and above
all, I desired to see my sweet Elizabeth in some degree consoled. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She indeed veiled her grief and strove to act the comforter to us all.
She looked steadily on life and assumed its duties with courage and
zeal. She devoted herself to those whom she had been taught to call
her uncle and cousins. Never was she so enchanting as at this time,
when she recalled the sunshine of her smiles and spent them upon us.
She forgot even her own regret in her endeavours to make us forget. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The day of my departure at length arrived. Clerval spent the last
evening with us. He had endeavoured to persuade his father to permit
him to accompany me and to become my fellow student, but in vain. His
father was a narrow-minded trader and saw idleness and ruin in the
aspirations and ambition of his son. Henry deeply felt the misfortune
of being debarred from a liberal education. He said little, but when
he spoke I read in his kindling eye and in his animated glance a
restrained but firm resolve not to be chained to the miserable details
of commerce. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We sat late. We could not tear ourselves away from each other nor
persuade ourselves to say the word “Farewell!” It was said, and we
retired under the pretence of seeking repose, each fancying that the
other was deceived; but when at morning’s dawn I descended to the
carriage which was to convey me away, they were all there—my father
again to bless me, Clerval to press my hand once more, my Elizabeth to
renew her entreaties that I would write often and to bestow the last
feminine attentions on her playmate and friend. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I threw myself into the chaise that was to convey me away and indulged in
the most melancholy reflections. I, who had ever been surrounded by
amiable companions, continually engaged in endeavouring to bestow mutual
pleasure—I was now alone. In the university whither I was going I
must form my own friends and be my own protector. My life had hitherto
been remarkably secluded and domestic, and this had given me invincible
repugnance to new countenances. I loved my brothers, Elizabeth, and
Clerval; these were “old familiar faces,” but I believed myself
totally unfitted for the company of strangers. Such were my reflections as
I commenced my journey; but as I proceeded, my spirits and hopes rose. I
ardently desired the acquisition of knowledge. I had often, when at home,
thought it hard to remain during my youth cooped up in one place and had
longed to enter the world and take my station among other human beings. 
Now my desires were complied with, and it would, indeed, have been folly to
repent. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I had sufficient leisure for these and many other reflections during my
journey to Ingolstadt, which was long and fatiguing. At length the
high white steeple of the town met my eyes. I alighted and was
conducted to my solitary apartment to spend the evening as I pleased. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The next morning I delivered my letters of introduction and paid a visit to
some of the principal professors. Chance—or rather the evil
influence, the Angel of Destruction, which asserted omnipotent sway over me
from the moment I turned my reluctant steps from my father’s
door—led me first to M. Krempe, professor of natural philosophy. He
was an uncouth man, but deeply imbued in the secrets of his science. He
asked me several questions concerning my progress in the different branches
of science appertaining to natural philosophy. I replied carelessly, and
partly in contempt, mentioned the names of my alchemists as the principal
authors I had studied. The professor stared. “Have you,” he
said, “really spent your time in studying such nonsense?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I replied in the affirmative. “Every minute,” continued M. Krempe with
warmth, “every instant that you have wasted on those books is utterly
and entirely lost. You have burdened your memory with exploded systems
and useless names. Good God! In what desert land have you lived,
where no one was kind enough to inform you that these fancies which you
have so greedily imbibed are a thousand years old and as musty as they
are ancient? I little expected, in this enlightened and scientific
age, to find a disciple of Albertus Magnus and Paracelsus. My dear
sir, you must begin your studies entirely anew.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> So saying, he stepped aside and wrote down a list of several books
treating of natural philosophy which he desired me to procure, and
dismissed me after mentioning that in the beginning of the following
week he intended to commence a course of lectures upon natural
philosophy in its general relations, and that M. Waldman, a fellow
professor, would lecture upon chemistry the alternate days that he
omitted. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I returned home not disappointed, for I have said that I had long
considered those authors useless whom the professor reprobated; but I
returned not at all the more inclined to recur to these studies in any
shape. M. Krempe was a little squat man with a gruff voice and a
repulsive countenance; the teacher, therefore, did not prepossess me in
favour of his pursuits. In rather a too philosophical and connected a
strain, perhaps, I have given an account of the conclusions I had come
to concerning them in my early years. As a child I had not been
content with the results promised by the modern professors of natural
science. With a confusion of ideas only to be accounted for by my
extreme youth and my want of a guide on such matters, I had retrod the
steps of knowledge along the paths of time and exchanged the
discoveries of recent inquirers for the dreams of forgotten alchemists.
Besides, I had a contempt for the uses of modern natural philosophy.
It was very different when the masters of the science sought
immortality and power; such views, although futile, were grand; but now
the scene was changed. The ambition of the inquirer seemed to limit
itself to the annihilation of those visions on which my interest in
science was chiefly founded. I was required to exchange chimeras of
boundless grandeur for realities of little worth. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Such were my reflections during the first two or three days of my
residence at Ingolstadt, which were chiefly spent in becoming
acquainted with the localities and the principal residents in my new
abode. But as the ensuing week commenced, I thought of the information
which M. Krempe had given me concerning the lectures. And although I
could not consent to go and hear that little conceited fellow deliver
sentences out of a pulpit, I recollected what he had said of M.
Waldman, whom I had never seen, as he had hitherto been out of town. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Partly from curiosity and partly from idleness, I went into the lecturing
room, which M. Waldman entered shortly after. This professor was very
unlike his colleague. He appeared about fifty years of age, but with an
aspect expressive of the greatest benevolence; a few grey hairs covered his
temples, but those at the back of his head were nearly black. His person
was short but remarkably erect and his voice the sweetest I had ever heard.
He began his lecture by a recapitulation of the history of chemistry and
the various improvements made by different men of learning, pronouncing
with fervour the names of the most distinguished discoverers. He then took
a cursory view of the present state of the science and explained many of
its elementary terms. After having made a few preparatory experiments, he
concluded with a panegyric upon modern chemistry, the terms of which I
shall never forget: </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The ancient teachers of this science,” said he,
“promised impossibilities and performed nothing. The modern masters
promise very little; they know that metals cannot be transmuted and that
the elixir of life is a chimera but these philosophers, whose hands seem
only made to dabble in dirt, and their eyes to pore over the microscope or
crucible, have indeed performed miracles. They penetrate into the recesses
of nature and show how she works in her hiding-places. They ascend into the
heavens; they have discovered how the blood circulates, and the nature of
the air we breathe. They have acquired new and almost unlimited powers;
they can command the thunders of heaven, mimic the earthquake, and even
mock the invisible world with its own shadows.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Such were the professor’s words—rather let me say such the words of
the fate—enounced to destroy me. As he went on I felt as if my soul
were grappling with a palpable enemy; one by one the various keys were
touched which formed the mechanism of my being; chord after chord was
sounded, and soon my mind was filled with one thought, one conception,
one purpose. So much has been done, exclaimed the soul of
Frankenstein—more, far more, will I achieve; treading in the steps
already marked, I will pioneer a new way, explore unknown powers, and
unfold to the world the deepest mysteries of creation. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I closed not my eyes that night. My internal being was in a state of
insurrection and turmoil; I felt that order would thence arise, but I
had no power to produce it. By degrees, after the morning’s dawn,
sleep came. I awoke, and my yesternight’s thoughts were as a dream.
There only remained a resolution to return to my ancient studies and to
devote myself to a science for which I believed myself to possess a
natural talent. On the same day I paid M. Waldman a visit. His
manners in private were even more mild and attractive than in public,
for there was a certain dignity in his mien during his lecture which in
his own house was replaced by the greatest affability and kindness. I
gave him pretty nearly the same account of my former pursuits as I had
given to his fellow professor. He heard with attention the little
narration concerning my studies and smiled at the names of Cornelius
Agrippa and Paracelsus, but without the contempt that M. Krempe had
exhibited. He said that “These were men to whose indefatigable zeal
modern philosophers were indebted for most of the foundations of their
knowledge. They had left to us, as an easier task, to give new names
and arrange in connected classifications the facts which they in a
great degree had been the instruments of bringing to light. The
labours of men of genius, however erroneously directed, scarcely ever
fail in ultimately turning to the solid advantage of mankind.” I
listened to his statement, which was delivered without any presumption
or affectation, and then added that his lecture had removed my
prejudices against modern chemists; I expressed myself in measured
terms, with the modesty and deference due from a youth to his
instructor, without letting escape (inexperience in life would have
made me ashamed) any of the enthusiasm which stimulated my intended
labours. I requested his advice concerning the books I ought to
procure. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am happy,” said M. Waldman, “to have gained a
disciple; and if your application equals your ability, I have no doubt of
your success. Chemistry is that branch of natural philosophy in which the
greatest improvements have been and may be made; it is on that account that
I have made it my peculiar study; but at the same time, I have not
neglected the other branches of science. A man would make but a very sorry
chemist if he attended to that department of human knowledge alone. If your
wish is to become really a man of science and not merely a petty
experimentalist, I should advise you to apply to every branch of natural
philosophy, including mathematics.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He then took me into his laboratory and explained to me the uses of his
various machines, instructing me as to what I ought to procure and
promising me the use of his own when I should have advanced far enough in
the science not to derange their mechanism. He also gave me the list of
books which I had requested, and I took my leave. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> From this day natural philosophy, and particularly chemistry, in the
most comprehensive sense of the term, became nearly my sole occupation.
I read with ardour those works, so full of genius and discrimination,
which modern inquirers have written on these subjects. I attended the
lectures and cultivated the acquaintance of the men of science of the
university, and I found even in M. Krempe a great deal of sound sense
and real information, combined, it is true, with a repulsive
physiognomy and manners, but not on that account the less valuable. In
M. Waldman I found a true friend. His gentleness was never tinged by
dogmatism, and his instructions were given with an air of frankness and
good nature that banished every idea of pedantry. In a thousand ways
he smoothed for me the path of knowledge and made the most abstruse
inquiries clear and facile to my apprehension. My application was at
first fluctuating and uncertain; it gained strength as I proceeded and
soon became so ardent and eager that the stars often disappeared in the
light of morning whilst I was yet engaged in my laboratory. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As I applied so closely, it may be easily conceived that my progress
was rapid. My ardour was indeed the astonishment of the students, and
my proficiency that of the masters. Professor Krempe often asked me,
with a sly smile, how Cornelius Agrippa went on, whilst M. Waldman
expressed the most heartfelt exultation in my progress. Two years
passed in this manner, during which I paid no visit to Geneva, but was
engaged, heart and soul, in the pursuit of some discoveries which I
hoped to make. None but those who have experienced them can conceive
of the enticements of science. In other studies you go as far as
others have gone before you, and there is nothing more to know; but in
a scientific pursuit there is continual food for discovery and wonder.
A mind of moderate capacity which closely pursues one study must
infallibly arrive at great proficiency in that study; and I, who
continually sought the attainment of one object of pursuit and was
solely wrapped up in this, improved so rapidly that at the end of two
years I made some discoveries in the improvement of some chemical
instruments, which procured me great esteem and admiration at the
university. When I had arrived at this point and had become as well
acquainted with the theory and practice of natural philosophy as
depended on the lessons of any of the professors at Ingolstadt, my
residence there being no longer conducive to my improvements, I thought
of returning to my friends and my native town, when an incident
happened that protracted my stay. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> One of the phenomena which had peculiarly attracted my attention was
the structure of the human frame, and, indeed, any animal endued with
life. Whence, I often asked myself, did the principle of life proceed?
It was a bold question, and one which has ever been considered as a
mystery; yet with how many things are we upon the brink of becoming
acquainted, if cowardice or carelessness did not restrain our
inquiries. I revolved these circumstances in my mind and determined
thenceforth to apply myself more particularly to those branches of
natural philosophy which relate to physiology. Unless I had been
animated by an almost supernatural enthusiasm, my application to this
study would have been irksome and almost intolerable. To examine the
causes of life, we must first have recourse to death. I became
acquainted with the science of anatomy, but this was not sufficient; I
must also observe the natural decay and corruption of the human body.
In my education my father had taken the greatest precautions that my
mind should be impressed with no supernatural horrors. I do not ever
remember to have trembled at a tale of superstition or to have feared
the apparition of a spirit. Darkness had no effect upon my fancy, and
a churchyard was to me merely the receptacle of bodies deprived of
life, which, from being the seat of beauty and strength, had become
food for the worm. Now I was led to examine the cause and progress of
this decay and forced to spend days and nights in vaults and
charnel-houses. My attention was fixed upon every object the most
insupportable to the delicacy of the human feelings. I saw how the
fine form of man was degraded and wasted; I beheld the corruption of
death succeed to the blooming cheek of life; I saw how the worm
inherited the wonders of the eye and brain. I paused, examining and
analysing all the minutiae of causation, as exemplified in the change
from life to death, and death to life, until from the midst of this
darkness a sudden light broke in upon me—a light so brilliant and
wondrous, yet so simple, that while I became dizzy with the immensity
of the prospect which it illustrated, I was surprised that among so
many men of genius who had directed their inquiries towards the same
science, that I alone should be reserved to discover so astonishing a
secret. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Remember, I am not recording the vision of a madman. The sun does not
more certainly shine in the heavens than that which I now affirm is
true. Some miracle might have produced it, yet the stages of the
discovery were distinct and probable. After days and nights of
incredible labour and fatigue, I succeeded in discovering the cause of
generation and life; nay, more, I became myself capable of bestowing
animation upon lifeless matter. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The astonishment which I had at first experienced on this discovery
soon gave place to delight and rapture. After so much time spent in
painful labour, to arrive at once at the summit of my desires was the
most gratifying consummation of my toils. But this discovery was so
great and overwhelming that all the steps by which I had been
progressively led to it were obliterated, and I beheld only the result.
What had been the study and desire of the wisest men since the creation
of the world was now within my grasp. Not that, like a magic scene, it
all opened upon me at once: the information I had obtained was of a
nature rather to direct my endeavours so soon as I should point them
towards the object of my search than to exhibit that object already
accomplished. I was like the Arabian who had been buried with the dead
and found a passage to life, aided only by one glimmering and seemingly
ineffectual light. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I see by your eagerness and the wonder and hope which your eyes
express, my friend, that you expect to be informed of the secret with
which I am acquainted; that cannot be; listen patiently until the end
of my story, and you will easily perceive why I am reserved upon that
subject. I will not lead you on, unguarded and ardent as I then was,
to your destruction and infallible misery. Learn from me, if not by my
precepts, at least by my example, how dangerous is the acquirement of
knowledge and how much happier that man is who believes his native town
to be the world, than he who aspires to become greater than his nature
will allow. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When I found so astonishing a power placed within my hands, I hesitated
a long time concerning the manner in which I should employ it.
Although I possessed the capacity of bestowing animation, yet to
prepare a frame for the reception of it, with all its intricacies of
fibres, muscles, and veins, still remained a work of inconceivable
difficulty and labour. I doubted at first whether I should attempt the
creation of a being like myself, or one of simpler organization; but my
imagination was too much exalted by my first success to permit me to
doubt of my ability to give life to an animal as complex and wonderful
as man. The materials at present within my command hardly appeared
adequate to so arduous an undertaking, but I doubted not that I should
ultimately succeed. I prepared myself for a multitude of reverses; my
operations might be incessantly baffled, and at last my work be
imperfect, yet when I considered the improvement which every day takes
place in science and mechanics, I was encouraged to hope my present
attempts would at least lay the foundations of future success. Nor
could I consider the magnitude and complexity of my plan as any
argument of its impracticability. It was with these feelings that I
began the creation of a human being. As the minuteness of the parts
formed a great hindrance to my speed, I resolved, contrary to my first
intention, to make the being of a gigantic stature, that is to say,
about eight feet in height, and proportionably large. After having
formed this determination and having spent some months in successfully
collecting and arranging my materials, I began. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> No one can conceive the variety of feelings which bore me onwards, like
a hurricane, in the first enthusiasm of success. Life and death
appeared to me ideal bounds, which I should first break through, and
pour a torrent of light into our dark world. A new species would bless
me as its creator and source; many happy and excellent natures would
owe their being to me. No father could claim the gratitude of his
child so completely as I should deserve theirs. Pursuing these
reflections, I thought that if I could bestow animation upon lifeless
matter, I might in process of time (although I now found it impossible)
renew life where death had apparently devoted the body to corruption. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> These thoughts supported my spirits, while I pursued my undertaking
with unremitting ardour. My cheek had grown pale with study, and my
person had become emaciated with confinement. Sometimes, on the very
brink of certainty, I failed; yet still I clung to the hope which the
next day or the next hour might realise. One secret which I alone
possessed was the hope to which I had dedicated myself; and the moon
gazed on my midnight labours, while, with unrelaxed and breathless
eagerness, I pursued nature to her hiding-places. Who shall conceive
the horrors of my secret toil as I dabbled among the unhallowed damps
of the grave or tortured the living animal to animate the lifeless
clay? My limbs now tremble, and my eyes swim with the remembrance; but
then a resistless and almost frantic impulse urged me forward; I seemed
to have lost all soul or sensation but for this one pursuit. It was
indeed but a passing trance, that only made me feel with renewed
acuteness so soon as, the unnatural stimulus ceasing to operate, I had
returned to my old habits. I collected bones from charnel-houses and
disturbed, with profane fingers, the tremendous secrets of the human
frame. In a solitary chamber, or rather cell, at the top of the house,
and separated from all the other apartments by a gallery and staircase,
I kept my workshop of filthy creation; my eyeballs were starting from
their sockets in attending to the details of my employment. The
dissecting room and the slaughter-house furnished many of my materials;
and often did my human nature turn with loathing from my occupation,
whilst, still urged on by an eagerness which perpetually increased, I
brought my work near to a conclusion. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The summer months passed while I was thus engaged, heart and soul, in
one pursuit. It was a most beautiful season; never did the fields
bestow a more plentiful harvest or the vines yield a more luxuriant
vintage, but my eyes were insensible to the charms of nature. And the
same feelings which made me neglect the scenes around me caused me also
to forget those friends who were so many miles absent, and whom I had
not seen for so long a time. I knew my silence disquieted them, and I
well remembered the words of my father: “I know that while you are
pleased with yourself you will think of us with affection, and we shall
hear regularly from you. You must pardon me if I regard any
interruption in your correspondence as a proof that your other duties
are equally neglected.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I knew well therefore what would be my father’s feelings, but I could
not tear my thoughts from my employment, loathsome in itself, but which
had taken an irresistible hold of my imagination. I wished, as it
were, to procrastinate all that related to my feelings of affection
until the great object, which swallowed up every habit of my nature,
should be completed. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I then thought that my father would be unjust if he ascribed my neglect
to vice or faultiness on my part, but I am now convinced that he was
justified in conceiving that I should not be altogether free from
blame. A human being in perfection ought always to preserve a calm and
peaceful mind and never to allow passion or a transitory desire to
disturb his tranquillity. I do not think that the pursuit of knowledge
is an exception to this rule. If the study to which you apply yourself
has a tendency to weaken your affections and to destroy your taste for
those simple pleasures in which no alloy can possibly mix, then that
study is certainly unlawful, that is to say, not befitting the human
mind. If this rule were always observed; if no man allowed any pursuit
whatsoever to interfere with the tranquillity of his domestic
affections, Greece had not been enslaved, Cæsar would have spared his
country, America would have been discovered more gradually, and the
empires of Mexico and Peru had not been destroyed. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But I forget that I am moralizing in the most interesting part of my
tale, and your looks remind me to proceed. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> My father made no reproach in his letters and only took notice of my
silence by inquiring into my occupations more particularly than before.
Winter, spring, and summer passed away during my labours; but I did not
watch the blossom or the expanding leaves—sights which before always
yielded me supreme delight—so deeply was I engrossed in my
occupation. The leaves of that year had withered before my work drew near
to a close, and now every day showed me more plainly how well I had
succeeded. But my enthusiasm was checked by my anxiety, and I appeared
rather like one doomed by slavery to toil in the mines, or any other
unwholesome trade than an artist occupied by his favourite employment.
Every night I was oppressed by a slow fever, and I became nervous to a most
painful degree; the fall of a leaf startled me, and I shunned my fellow
creatures as if I had been guilty of a crime. Sometimes I grew alarmed at
the wreck I perceived that I had become; the energy of my purpose alone
sustained me: my labours would soon end, and I believed that exercise and
amusement would then drive away incipient disease; and I promised myself
both of these when my creation should be complete. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was on a dreary night of November that I beheld the accomplishment
of my toils. With an anxiety that almost amounted to agony, I
collected the instruments of life around me, that I might infuse a
spark of being into the lifeless thing that lay at my feet. It was
already one in the morning; the rain pattered dismally against the
panes, and my candle was nearly burnt out, when, by the glimmer of the
half-extinguished light, I saw the dull yellow eye of the creature
open; it breathed hard, and a convulsive motion agitated its limbs. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> How can I describe my emotions at this catastrophe, or how delineate
the wretch whom with such infinite pains and care I had endeavoured to
form? His limbs were in proportion, and I had selected his features as
beautiful. Beautiful! Great God! His yellow skin scarcely covered
the work of muscles and arteries beneath; his hair was of a lustrous
black, and flowing; his teeth of a pearly whiteness; but these
luxuriances only formed a more horrid contrast with his watery eyes,
that seemed almost of the same colour as the dun-white sockets in which
they were set, his shrivelled complexion and straight black lips. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The different accidents of life are not so changeable as the feelings
of human nature. I had worked hard for nearly two years, for the sole
purpose of infusing life into an inanimate body. For this I had
deprived myself of rest and health. I had desired it with an ardour
that far exceeded moderation; but now that I had finished, the beauty
of the dream vanished, and breathless horror and disgust filled my
heart. Unable to endure the aspect of the being I had created, I
rushed out of the room and continued a long time traversing my
bed-chamber, unable to compose my mind to sleep. At length lassitude
succeeded to the tumult I had before endured, and I threw myself on the
bed in my clothes, endeavouring to seek a few moments of forgetfulness.
But it was in vain; I slept, indeed, but I was disturbed by the wildest
dreams. I thought I saw Elizabeth, in the bloom of health, walking in
the streets of Ingolstadt. Delighted and surprised, I embraced her,
but as I imprinted the first kiss on her lips, they became livid with
the hue of death; her features appeared to change, and I thought that I
held the corpse of my dead mother in my arms; a shroud enveloped her
form, and I saw the grave-worms crawling in the folds of the flannel.
I started from my sleep with horror; a cold dew covered my forehead, my
teeth chattered, and every limb became convulsed; when, by the dim and
yellow light of the moon, as it forced its way through the window
shutters, I beheld the wretch—the miserable monster whom I had
created. He held up the curtain of the bed; and his eyes, if eyes they
may be called, were fixed on me. His jaws opened, and he muttered some
inarticulate sounds, while a grin wrinkled his cheeks. He might have
spoken, but I did not hear; one hand was stretched out, seemingly to
detain me, but I escaped and rushed downstairs. I took refuge in the
courtyard belonging to the house which I inhabited, where I remained
during the rest of the night, walking up and down in the greatest
agitation, listening attentively, catching and fearing each sound as if
it were to announce the approach of the demoniacal corpse to which I
had so miserably given life. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Oh! No mortal could support the horror of that countenance. A mummy
again endued with animation could not be so hideous as that wretch. I
had gazed on him while unfinished; he was ugly then, but when those
muscles and joints were rendered capable of motion, it became a thing
such as even Dante could not have conceived. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I passed the night wretchedly. Sometimes my pulse beat so quickly and
hardly that I felt the palpitation of every artery; at others, I nearly
sank to the ground through languor and extreme weakness. Mingled with
this horror, I felt the bitterness of disappointment; dreams that had
been my food and pleasant rest for so long a space were now become a
hell to me; and the change was so rapid, the overthrow so complete! </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Morning, dismal and wet, at length dawned and discovered to my
sleepless and aching eyes the church of Ingolstadt, its white steeple
and clock, which indicated the sixth hour. The porter opened the gates
of the court, which had that night been my asylum, and I issued into
the streets, pacing them with quick steps, as if I sought to avoid the
wretch whom I feared every turning of the street would present to my
view. I did not dare return to the apartment which I inhabited, but
felt impelled to hurry on, although drenched by the rain which poured
from a black and comfortless sky. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I continued walking in this manner for some time, endeavouring by
bodily exercise to ease the load that weighed upon my mind. I
traversed the streets without any clear conception of where I was or
what I was doing. My heart palpitated in the sickness of fear, and I
hurried on with irregular steps, not daring to look about me:
 
 Like one who, on a lonely road,
 Doth walk in fear and dread,
 And, having once turned round, walks on,
 And turns no more his head;
 Because he knows a frightful fiend
 Doth close behind him tread.
 
 [Coleridge’s “Ancient Mariner.”] </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Continuing thus, I came at length opposite to the inn at which the various
diligences and carriages usually stopped. Here I paused, I knew not why;
but I remained some minutes with my eyes fixed on a coach that was coming
towards me from the other end of the street. As it drew nearer I observed
that it was the Swiss diligence; it stopped just where I was standing, and
on the door being opened, I perceived Henry Clerval, who, on seeing me,
instantly sprung out. “My dear Frankenstein,” exclaimed he,
“how glad I am to see you! How fortunate that you should be here at
the very moment of my alighting!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Nothing could equal my delight on seeing Clerval; his presence brought back
to my thoughts my father, Elizabeth, and all those scenes of home so dear
to my recollection. I grasped his hand, and in a moment forgot my horror
and misfortune; I felt suddenly, and for the first time during many months,
calm and serene joy. I welcomed my friend, therefore, in the most cordial
manner, and we walked towards my college. Clerval continued talking for
some time about our mutual friends and his own good fortune in being
permitted to come to Ingolstadt. “You may easily believe,” said
he, “how great was the difficulty to persuade my father that all
necessary knowledge was not comprised in the noble art of book-keeping;
and, indeed, I believe I left him incredulous to the last, for his constant
answer to my unwearied entreaties was the same as that of the Dutch
schoolmaster in The Vicar of Wakefield: ‘I have ten thousand florins
a year without Greek, I eat heartily without Greek.’ But his
affection for me at length overcame his dislike of learning, and he has
permitted me to undertake a voyage of discovery to the land of
knowledge.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Very well, and very happy, only a little uneasy that they hear from
you so seldom. By the by, I mean to lecture you a little upon their
account myself. But, my dear Frankenstein,” continued he, stopping
short and gazing full in my face, “I did not before remark how very ill
you appear; so thin and pale; you look as if you had been watching for
several nights.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You have guessed right; I have lately been so deeply engaged in one
occupation that I have not allowed myself sufficient rest, as you see;
but I hope, I sincerely hope, that all these employments are now at an
end and that I am at length free.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I trembled excessively; I could not endure to think of, and far less to
allude to, the occurrences of the preceding night. I walked with a
quick pace, and we soon arrived at my college. I then reflected, and
the thought made me shiver, that the creature whom I had left in my
apartment might still be there, alive and walking about. I dreaded to
behold this monster, but I feared still more that Henry should see him.
Entreating him, therefore, to remain a few minutes at the bottom of the
stairs, I darted up towards my own room. My hand was already on the
lock of the door before I recollected myself. I then paused, and a
cold shivering came over me. I threw the door forcibly open, as
children are accustomed to do when they expect a spectre to stand in
waiting for them on the other side; but nothing appeared. I stepped
fearfully in: the apartment was empty, and my bedroom was also freed
from its hideous guest. I could hardly believe that so great a good
fortune could have befallen me, but when I became assured that my enemy
had indeed fled, I clapped my hands for joy and ran down to Clerval. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We ascended into my room, and the servant presently brought breakfast;
but I was unable to contain myself. It was not joy only that possessed
me; I felt my flesh tingle with excess of sensitiveness, and my pulse
beat rapidly. I was unable to remain for a single instant in the same
place; I jumped over the chairs, clapped my hands, and laughed aloud.
Clerval at first attributed my unusual spirits to joy on his arrival,
but when he observed me more attentively, he saw a wildness in my eyes
for which he could not account, and my loud, unrestrained, heartless
laughter frightened and astonished him. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My dear Victor,” cried he, “what, for God’s sake,
is the matter? Do not laugh in that manner. How ill you are! What is the
cause of all this?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Do not ask me,” cried I, putting my hands before my eyes, for I
thought I saw the dreaded spectre glide into the room; “_he_ can
tell. Oh, save me! Save me!” I imagined that the monster seized me;
I struggled furiously and fell down in a fit. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Poor Clerval! What must have been his feelings? A meeting, which he
anticipated with such joy, so strangely turned to bitterness. But I
was not the witness of his grief, for I was lifeless and did not
recover my senses for a long, long time. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This was the commencement of a nervous fever which confined me for
several months. During all that time Henry was my only nurse. I
afterwards learned that, knowing my father’s advanced age and unfitness
for so long a journey, and how wretched my sickness would make
Elizabeth, he spared them this grief by concealing the extent of my
disorder. He knew that I could not have a more kind and attentive
nurse than himself; and, firm in the hope he felt of my recovery, he
did not doubt that, instead of doing harm, he performed the kindest
action that he could towards them. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But I was in reality very ill, and surely nothing but the unbounded and
unremitting attentions of my friend could have restored me to life.
The form of the monster on whom I had bestowed existence was for ever
before my eyes, and I raved incessantly concerning him. Doubtless my
words surprised Henry; he at first believed them to be the wanderings
of my disturbed imagination, but the pertinacity with which I
continually recurred to the same subject persuaded him that my disorder
indeed owed its origin to some uncommon and terrible event. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> By very slow degrees, and with frequent relapses that alarmed and
grieved my friend, I recovered. I remember the first time I became
capable of observing outward objects with any kind of pleasure, I
perceived that the fallen leaves had disappeared and that the young
buds were shooting forth from the trees that shaded my window. It was
a divine spring, and the season contributed greatly to my
convalescence. I felt also sentiments of joy and affection revive in
my bosom; my gloom disappeared, and in a short time I became as
cheerful as before I was attacked by the fatal passion. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Dearest Clerval,” exclaimed I, “how kind, how very good
you are to me. This whole winter, instead of being spent in study, as you
promised yourself, has been consumed in my sick room. How shall I ever
repay you? I feel the greatest remorse for the disappointment of which I
have been the occasion, but you will forgive me.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You will repay me entirely if you do not discompose yourself, but get
well as fast as you can; and since you appear in such good spirits, I
may speak to you on one subject, may I not?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I trembled. One subject! What could it be? Could he allude to an object on
whom I dared not even think? </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Compose yourself,” said Clerval, who observed my change of
colour, “I will not mention it if it agitates you; but your father
and cousin would be very happy if they received a letter from you in your
own handwriting. They hardly know how ill you have been and are uneasy at
your long silence.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Is that all, my dear Henry? How could you suppose that my first
thought would not fly towards those dear, dear friends whom I love and
who are so deserving of my love?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If this is your present temper, my friend, you will perhaps be glad
to see a letter that has been lying here some days for you; it is from
your cousin, I believe.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You have been ill, very ill, and even the constant letters of dear
kind Henry are not sufficient to reassure me on your account. You are
forbidden to write—to hold a pen; yet one word from you, dear Victor,
is necessary to calm our apprehensions. For a long time I have thought
that each post would bring this line, and my persuasions have
restrained my uncle from undertaking a journey to Ingolstadt. I have
prevented his encountering the inconveniences and perhaps dangers of so
long a journey, yet how often have I regretted not being able to
perform it myself! I figure to myself that the task of attending on
your sickbed has devolved on some mercenary old nurse, who could never
guess your wishes nor minister to them with the care and affection of
your poor cousin. Yet that is over now: Clerval writes that indeed
you are getting better. I eagerly hope that you will confirm this
intelligence soon in your own handwriting. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Get well—and return to us. You will find a happy, cheerful home and
friends who love you dearly. Your father’s health is vigorous, and he
asks but to see you, but to be assured that you are well; and not a
care will ever cloud his benevolent countenance. How pleased you would
be to remark the improvement of our Ernest! He is now sixteen and full
of activity and spirit. He is desirous to be a true Swiss and to enter
into foreign service, but we cannot part with him, at least until his
elder brother returns to us. My uncle is not pleased with the idea of
a military career in a distant country, but Ernest never had your
powers of application. He looks upon study as an odious fetter; his
time is spent in the open air, climbing the hills or rowing on the
lake. I fear that he will become an idler unless we yield the point
and permit him to enter on the profession which he has selected. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Little alteration, except the growth of our dear children, has taken
place since you left us. The blue lake and snow-clad mountains—they
never change; and I think our placid home and our contented hearts are
regulated by the same immutable laws. My trifling occupations take up
my time and amuse me, and I am rewarded for any exertions by seeing
none but happy, kind faces around me. Since you left us, but one
change has taken place in our little household. Do you remember on
what occasion Justine Moritz entered our family? Probably you do not;
I will relate her history, therefore in a few words. Madame Moritz,
her mother, was a widow with four children, of whom Justine was the
third. This girl had always been the favourite of her father, but
through a strange perversity, her mother could not endure her, and
after the death of M. Moritz, treated her very ill. My aunt observed
this, and when Justine was twelve years of age, prevailed on her mother
to allow her to live at our house. The republican institutions of our
country have produced simpler and happier manners than those which
prevail in the great monarchies that surround it. Hence there is less
distinction between the several classes of its inhabitants; and the
lower orders, being neither so poor nor so despised, their manners are
more refined and moral. A servant in Geneva does not mean the same
thing as a servant in France and England. Justine, thus received in
our family, learned the duties of a servant, a condition which, in our
fortunate country, does not include the idea of ignorance and a
sacrifice of the dignity of a human being. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Justine, you may remember, was a great favourite of yours; and I
recollect you once remarked that if you were in an ill humour, one
glance from Justine could dissipate it, for the same reason that
Ariosto gives concerning the beauty of Angelica—she looked so
frank-hearted and happy. My aunt conceived a great attachment for her,
by which she was induced to give her an education superior to that
which she had at first intended. This benefit was fully repaid;
Justine was the most grateful little creature in the world: I do not
mean that she made any professions I never heard one pass her lips, but
you could see by her eyes that she almost adored her protectress.
Although her disposition was gay and in many respects inconsiderate,
yet she paid the greatest attention to every gesture of my aunt. She
thought her the model of all excellence and endeavoured to imitate her
phraseology and manners, so that even now she often reminds me of her. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “When my dearest aunt died every one was too much occupied in their own
grief to notice poor Justine, who had attended her during her illness
with the most anxious affection. Poor Justine was very ill; but other
trials were reserved for her. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “One by one, her brothers and sister died; and her mother, with the
exception of her neglected daughter, was left childless. The
conscience of the woman was troubled; she began to think that the
deaths of her favourites was a judgement from heaven to chastise her
partiality. She was a Roman Catholic; and I believe her confessor
confirmed the idea which she had conceived. Accordingly, a few months
after your departure for Ingolstadt, Justine was called home by her
repentant mother. Poor girl! She wept when she quitted our house; she
was much altered since the death of my aunt; grief had given softness
and a winning mildness to her manners, which had before been remarkable
for vivacity. Nor was her residence at her mother’s house of a nature
to restore her gaiety. The poor woman was very vacillating in her
repentance. She sometimes begged Justine to forgive her unkindness,
but much oftener accused her of having caused the deaths of her
brothers and sister. Perpetual fretting at length threw Madame Moritz
into a decline, which at first increased her irritability, but she is
now at peace for ever. She died on the first approach of cold weather,
at the beginning of this last winter. Justine has just returned to us;
and I assure you I love her tenderly. She is very clever and gentle,
and extremely pretty; as I mentioned before, her mien and her
expression continually remind me of my dear aunt. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I must say also a few words to you, my dear cousin, of little darling
William. I wish you could see him; he is very tall of his age, with
sweet laughing blue eyes, dark eyelashes, and curling hair. When he
smiles, two little dimples appear on each cheek, which are rosy with
health. He has already had one or two little _wives,_ but Louisa Biron
is his favourite, a pretty little girl of five years of age. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Now, dear Victor, I dare say you wish to be indulged in a little
gossip concerning the good people of Geneva. The pretty Miss Mansfield
has already received the congratulatory visits on her approaching
marriage with a young Englishman, John Melbourne, Esq. Her ugly
sister, Manon, married M. Duvillard, the rich banker, last autumn. Your
favourite schoolfellow, Louis Manoir, has suffered several misfortunes
since the departure of Clerval from Geneva. But he has already
recovered his spirits, and is reported to be on the point of marrying a
lively pretty Frenchwoman, Madame Tavernier. She is a widow, and much
older than Manoir; but she is very much admired, and a favourite with
everybody. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have written myself into better spirits, dear cousin; but my anxiety
returns upon me as I conclude. Write, dearest Victor,—one line—one
word will be a blessing to us. Ten thousand thanks to Henry for his
kindness, his affection, and his many letters; we are sincerely
grateful. Adieu! my cousin; take care of yourself; and, I entreat
you, write! </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Dear, dear Elizabeth!” I exclaimed, when I had read her
letter: “I will write instantly and relieve them from the anxiety
they must feel.” I wrote, and this exertion greatly fatigued me; but
my convalescence had commenced, and proceeded regularly. In another
fortnight I was able to leave my chamber. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> One of my first duties on my recovery was to introduce Clerval to the
several professors of the university. In doing this, I underwent a
kind of rough usage, ill befitting the wounds that my mind had
sustained. Ever since the fatal night, the end of my labours, and the
beginning of my misfortunes, I had conceived a violent antipathy even
to the name of natural philosophy. When I was otherwise quite restored
to health, the sight of a chemical instrument would renew all the agony
of my nervous symptoms. Henry saw this, and had removed all my
apparatus from my view. He had also changed my apartment; for he
perceived that I had acquired a dislike for the room which had
previously been my laboratory. But these cares of Clerval were made of
no avail when I visited the professors. M. Waldman inflicted torture
when he praised, with kindness and warmth, the astonishing progress I
had made in the sciences. He soon perceived that I disliked the
subject; but not guessing the real cause, he attributed my feelings to
modesty, and changed the subject from my improvement, to the science
itself, with a desire, as I evidently saw, of drawing me out. What
could I do? He meant to please, and he tormented me. I felt as if he
had placed carefully, one by one, in my view those instruments which
were to be afterwards used in putting me to a slow and cruel death. I
writhed under his words, yet dared not exhibit the pain I felt.
Clerval, whose eyes and feelings were always quick in discerning the
sensations of others, declined the subject, alleging, in excuse, his
total ignorance; and the conversation took a more general turn. I
thanked my friend from my heart, but I did not speak. I saw plainly
that he was surprised, but he never attempted to draw my secret from
me; and although I loved him with a mixture of affection and reverence
that knew no bounds, yet I could never persuade myself to confide in
him that event which was so often present to my recollection, but which
I feared the detail to another would only impress more deeply. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> M. Krempe was not equally docile; and in my condition at that time, of
almost insupportable sensitiveness, his harsh blunt encomiums gave me even
more pain than the benevolent approbation of M. Waldman. “D—n
the fellow!” cried he; “why, M. Clerval, I assure you he has
outstript us all. Ay, stare if you please; but it is nevertheless true. A
youngster who, but a few years ago, believed in Cornelius Agrippa as firmly
as in the gospel, has now set himself at the head of the university; and if
he is not soon pulled down, we shall all be out of countenance.—Ay,
ay,” continued he, observing my face expressive of suffering,
“M. Frankenstein is modest; an excellent quality in a young man.
Young men should be diffident of themselves, you know, M. Clerval: I was
myself when young; but that wears out in a very short time.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> M. Krempe had now commenced an eulogy on himself, which happily turned
the conversation from a subject that was so annoying to me. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Clerval had never sympathised in my tastes for natural science; and his
literary pursuits differed wholly from those which had occupied me. He
came to the university with the design of making himself complete
master of the oriental languages, and thus he should open a field for
the plan of life he had marked out for himself. Resolved to pursue no
inglorious career, he turned his eyes toward the East, as affording
scope for his spirit of enterprise. The Persian, Arabic, and Sanskrit
languages engaged his attention, and I was easily induced to enter on
the same studies. Idleness had ever been irksome to me, and now that I
wished to fly from reflection, and hated my former studies, I felt
great relief in being the fellow-pupil with my friend, and found not
only instruction but consolation in the works of the orientalists. I
did not, like him, attempt a critical knowledge of their dialects, for
I did not contemplate making any other use of them than temporary
amusement. I read merely to understand their meaning, and they well
repaid my labours. Their melancholy is soothing, and their joy
elevating, to a degree I never experienced in studying the authors of
any other country. When you read their writings, life appears to
consist in a warm sun and a garden of roses,—in the smiles and frowns
of a fair enemy, and the fire that consumes your own heart. How
different from the manly and heroical poetry of Greece and Rome! </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Summer passed away in these occupations, and my return to Geneva was
fixed for the latter end of autumn; but being delayed by several
accidents, winter and snow arrived, the roads were deemed impassable,
and my journey was retarded until the ensuing spring. I felt this
delay very bitterly; for I longed to see my native town and my beloved
friends. My return had only been delayed so long, from an
unwillingness to leave Clerval in a strange place, before he had become
acquainted with any of its inhabitants. The winter, however, was spent
cheerfully; and although the spring was uncommonly late, when it came
its beauty compensated for its dilatoriness. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The month of May had already commenced, and I expected the letter daily
which was to fix the date of my departure, when Henry proposed a
pedestrian tour in the environs of Ingolstadt, that I might bid a
personal farewell to the country I had so long inhabited. I acceded
with pleasure to this proposition: I was fond of exercise, and Clerval
had always been my favourite companion in the ramble of this nature
that I had taken among the scenes of my native country. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We passed a fortnight in these perambulations: my health and spirits
had long been restored, and they gained additional strength from the
salubrious air I breathed, the natural incidents of our progress, and
the conversation of my friend. Study had before secluded me from the
intercourse of my fellow-creatures, and rendered me unsocial; but
Clerval called forth the better feelings of my heart; he again taught
me to love the aspect of nature, and the cheerful faces of children.
Excellent friend! how sincerely you did love me, and endeavour to
elevate my mind until it was on a level with your own. A selfish
pursuit had cramped and narrowed me, until your gentleness and
affection warmed and opened my senses; I became the same happy creature
who, a few years ago, loved and beloved by all, had no sorrow or care.
When happy, inanimate nature had the power of bestowing on me the most
delightful sensations. A serene sky and verdant fields filled me with
ecstasy. The present season was indeed divine; the flowers of spring
bloomed in the hedges, while those of summer were already in bud. I
was undisturbed by thoughts which during the preceding year had pressed
upon me, notwithstanding my endeavours to throw them off, with an
invincible burden. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Henry rejoiced in my gaiety, and sincerely sympathised in my feelings: he
exerted himself to amuse me, while he expressed the sensations that filled
his soul. The resources of his mind on this occasion were truly
astonishing: his conversation was full of imagination; and very often, in
imitation of the Persian and Arabic writers, he invented tales of wonderful
fancy and passion. At other times he repeated my favourite poems, or drew
me out into arguments, which he supported with great ingenuity. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We returned to our college on a Sunday afternoon: the peasants were
dancing, and every one we met appeared gay and happy. My own spirits were
high, and I bounded along with feelings of unbridled joy and hilarity. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You have probably waited impatiently for a letter to fix the date of
your return to us; and I was at first tempted to write only a few
lines, merely mentioning the day on which I should expect you. But
that would be a cruel kindness, and I dare not do it. What would be
your surprise, my son, when you expected a happy and glad welcome, to
behold, on the contrary, tears and wretchedness? And how, Victor, can
I relate our misfortune? Absence cannot have rendered you callous to
our joys and griefs; and how shall I inflict pain on my long absent
son? I wish to prepare you for the woeful news, but I know it is
impossible; even now your eye skims over the page to seek the words
which are to convey to you the horrible tidings. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “William is dead!—that sweet child, whose smiles delighted and warmed
my heart, who was so gentle, yet so gay! Victor, he is murdered! </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Last Thursday (May 7th), I, my niece, and your two brothers, went to
walk in Plainpalais. The evening was warm and serene, and we prolonged
our walk farther than usual. It was already dusk before we thought of
returning; and then we discovered that William and Ernest, who had gone
on before, were not to be found. We accordingly rested on a seat until
they should return. Presently Ernest came, and enquired if we had seen
his brother; he said, that he had been playing with him, that William
had run away to hide himself, and that he vainly sought for him, and
afterwards waited for a long time, but that he did not return. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This account rather alarmed us, and we continued to search for him
until night fell, when Elizabeth conjectured that he might have
returned to the house. He was not there. We returned again, with
torches; for I could not rest, when I thought that my sweet boy had
lost himself, and was exposed to all the damps and dews of night;
Elizabeth also suffered extreme anguish. About five in the morning I
discovered my lovely boy, whom the night before I had seen blooming and
active in health, stretched on the grass livid and motionless; the
print of the murder’s finger was on his neck. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He was conveyed home, and the anguish that was visible in my
countenance betrayed the secret to Elizabeth. She was very earnest to
see the corpse. At first I attempted to prevent her but she persisted,
and entering the room where it lay, hastily examined the neck of the
victim, and clasping her hands exclaimed, ‘O God! I have murdered my
darling child!’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “She fainted, and was restored with extreme difficulty. When she again
lived, it was only to weep and sigh. She told me, that that same
evening William had teased her to let him wear a very valuable
miniature that she possessed of your mother. This picture is gone, and
was doubtless the temptation which urged the murderer to the deed. We
have no trace of him at present, although our exertions to discover him
are unremitted; but they will not restore my beloved William! </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Come, dearest Victor; you alone can console Elizabeth. She weeps
continually, and accuses herself unjustly as the cause of his death;
her words pierce my heart. We are all unhappy; but will not that be an
additional motive for you, my son, to return and be our comforter?
Your dear mother! Alas, Victor! I now say, Thank God she did not live
to witness the cruel, miserable death of her youngest darling! </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Come, Victor; not brooding thoughts of vengeance against the assassin,
but with feelings of peace and gentleness, that will heal, instead of
festering, the wounds of our minds. Enter the house of mourning, my
friend, but with kindness and affection for those who love you, and not
with hatred for your enemies. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Clerval, who had watched my countenance as I read this letter, was
surprised to observe the despair that succeeded the joy I at first
expressed on receiving news from my friends. I threw the letter on the
table, and covered my face with my hands. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My dear Frankenstein,” exclaimed Henry, when he perceived me
weep with bitterness, “are you always to be unhappy? My dear friend,
what has happened?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I motioned him to take up the letter, while I walked up and down the
room in the extremest agitation. Tears also gushed from the eyes of
Clerval, as he read the account of my misfortune. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> During our walk, Clerval endeavoured to say a few words of consolation;
he could only express his heartfelt sympathy. “Poor William!” said he,
“dear lovely child, he now sleeps with his angel mother! Who that had
seen him bright and joyous in his young beauty, but must weep over his
untimely loss! To die so miserably; to feel the murderer’s grasp! How
much more a murdered that could destroy radiant innocence! Poor little
fellow! one only consolation have we; his friends mourn and weep, but
he is at rest. The pang is over, his sufferings are at an end for ever.
A sod covers his gentle form, and he knows no pain. He can no longer
be a subject for pity; we must reserve that for his miserable
survivors.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Clerval spoke thus as we hurried through the streets; the words
impressed themselves on my mind and I remembered them afterwards in
solitude. But now, as soon as the horses arrived, I hurried into a
cabriolet, and bade farewell to my friend. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> My journey was very melancholy. At first I wished to hurry on, for I longed
to console and sympathise with my loved and sorrowing friends; but when I
drew near my native town, I slackened my progress. I could hardly sustain
the multitude of feelings that crowded into my mind. I passed through
scenes familiar to my youth, but which I had not seen for nearly six years.
How altered every thing might be during that time! One sudden and
desolating change had taken place; but a thousand little circumstances
might have by degrees worked other alterations, which, although they were
done more tranquilly, might not be the less decisive. Fear overcame me; I
dared no advance, dreading a thousand nameless evils that made me tremble,
although I was unable to define them. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I remained two days at Lausanne, in this painful state of mind. I
contemplated the lake: the waters were placid; all around was calm; and the
snowy mountains, “the palaces of nature,” were not changed. By
degrees the calm and heavenly scene restored me, and I continued my journey
towards Geneva. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The road ran by the side of the lake, which became narrower as I
approached my native town. I discovered more distinctly the black
sides of Jura, and the bright summit of Mont Blanc. I wept like a
child. “Dear mountains! my own beautiful lake! how do you welcome your
wanderer? Your summits are clear; the sky and lake are blue and
placid. Is this to prognosticate peace, or to mock at my unhappiness?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I fear, my friend, that I shall render myself tedious by dwelling on
these preliminary circumstances; but they were days of comparative
happiness, and I think of them with pleasure. My country, my beloved
country! who but a native can tell the delight I took in again
beholding thy streams, thy mountains, and, more than all, thy lovely
lake! </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Yet, as I drew nearer home, grief and fear again overcame me. Night also
closed around; and when I could hardly see the dark mountains, I felt still
more gloomily. The picture appeared a vast and dim scene of evil, and I
foresaw obscurely that I was destined to become the most wretched of human
beings. Alas! I prophesied truly, and failed only in one single
circumstance, that in all the misery I imagined and dreaded, I did not
conceive the hundredth part of the anguish I was destined to endure. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was completely dark when I arrived in the environs of Geneva; the gates
of the town were already shut; and I was obliged to pass the night at
Secheron, a village at the distance of half a league from the city. The sky
was serene; and, as I was unable to rest, I resolved to visit the spot
where my poor William had been murdered. As I could not pass through the
town, I was obliged to cross the lake in a boat to arrive at Plainpalais.
During this short voyage I saw the lightning playing on the summit of Mont
Blanc in the most beautiful figures. The storm appeared to approach
rapidly, and, on landing, I ascended a low hill, that I might observe its
progress. It advanced; the heavens were clouded, and I soon felt the rain
coming slowly in large drops, but its violence quickly increased. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I quitted my seat, and walked on, although the darkness and storm
increased every minute, and the thunder burst with a terrific crash
over my head. It was echoed from Salêve, the Juras, and the Alps of
Savoy; vivid flashes of lightning dazzled my eyes, illuminating the
lake, making it appear like a vast sheet of fire; then for an instant
every thing seemed of a pitchy darkness, until the eye recovered itself
from the preceding flash. The storm, as is often the case in
Switzerland, appeared at once in various parts of the heavens. The
most violent storm hung exactly north of the town, over the part of the
lake which lies between the promontory of Belrive and the village of
Copêt. Another storm enlightened Jura with faint flashes; and another
darkened and sometimes disclosed the Môle, a peaked mountain to the
east of the lake. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> While I watched the tempest, so beautiful yet terrific, I wandered on with
a hasty step. This noble war in the sky elevated my spirits; I clasped my
hands, and exclaimed aloud, “William, dear angel! this is thy
funeral, this thy dirge!” As I said these words, I perceived in the
gloom a figure which stole from behind a clump of trees near me; I stood
fixed, gazing intently: I could not be mistaken. A flash of lightning
illuminated the object, and discovered its shape plainly to me; its
gigantic stature, and the deformity of its aspect more hideous than belongs
to humanity, instantly informed me that it was the wretch, the filthy
dæmon, to whom I had given life. What did he there? Could he be (I
shuddered at the conception) the murderer of my brother? No sooner did that
idea cross my imagination, than I became convinced of its truth; my teeth
chattered, and I was forced to lean against a tree for support. The figure
passed me quickly, and I lost it in the gloom. Nothing in human shape could
have destroyed the fair child. _He_ was the murderer! I could not
doubt it. The mere presence of the idea was an irresistible proof of the
fact. I thought of pursuing the devil; but it would have been in vain, for
another flash discovered him to me hanging among the rocks of the nearly
perpendicular ascent of Mont Salêve, a hill that bounds Plainpalais on the
south. He soon reached the summit, and disappeared. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I remained motionless. The thunder ceased; but the rain still
continued, and the scene was enveloped in an impenetrable darkness. I
revolved in my mind the events which I had until now sought to forget:
the whole train of my progress toward the creation; the appearance of
the works of my own hands at my bedside; its departure. Two years had
now nearly elapsed since the night on which he first received life; and
was this his first crime? Alas! I had turned loose into the world a
depraved wretch, whose delight was in carnage and misery; had he not
murdered my brother? </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> No one can conceive the anguish I suffered during the remainder of the
night, which I spent, cold and wet, in the open air. But I did not
feel the inconvenience of the weather; my imagination was busy in
scenes of evil and despair. I considered the being whom I had cast
among mankind, and endowed with the will and power to effect purposes
of horror, such as the deed which he had now done, nearly in the light
of my own vampire, my own spirit let loose from the grave, and forced
to destroy all that was dear to me. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Day dawned; and I directed my steps towards the town. The gates were
open, and I hastened to my father’s house. My first thought was to
discover what I knew of the murderer, and cause instant pursuit to be
made. But I paused when I reflected on the story that I had to tell. A
being whom I myself had formed, and endued with life, had met me at
midnight among the precipices of an inaccessible mountain. I
remembered also the nervous fever with which I had been seized just at
the time that I dated my creation, and which would give an air of
delirium to a tale otherwise so utterly improbable. I well knew that
if any other had communicated such a relation to me, I should have
looked upon it as the ravings of insanity. Besides, the strange nature
of the animal would elude all pursuit, even if I were so far credited
as to persuade my relatives to commence it. And then of what use would
be pursuit? Who could arrest a creature capable of scaling the
overhanging sides of Mont Salêve? These reflections determined me, and
I resolved to remain silent. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was about five in the morning when I entered my father’s house. I
told the servants not to disturb the family, and went into the library
to attend their usual hour of rising. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Six years had elapsed, passed in a dream but for one indelible trace, and I
stood in the same place where I had last embraced my father before my
departure for Ingolstadt. Beloved and venerable parent! He still remained
to me. I gazed on the picture of my mother, which stood over the
mantel-piece. It was an historical subject, painted at my father’s
desire, and represented Caroline Beaufort in an agony of despair, kneeling
by the coffin of her dead father. Her garb was rustic, and her cheek pale;
but there was an air of dignity and beauty, that hardly permitted the
sentiment of pity. Below this picture was a miniature of William; and my
tears flowed when I looked upon it. While I was thus engaged, Ernest
entered: he had heard me arrive, and hastened to welcome me:
“Welcome, my dearest Victor,” said he. “Ah! I wish you
had come three months ago, and then you would have found us all joyous and
delighted. You come to us now to share a misery which nothing can
alleviate; yet your presence will, I hope, revive our father, who seems
sinking under his misfortune; and your persuasions will induce poor
Elizabeth to cease her vain and tormenting self-accusations.—Poor
William! he was our darling and our pride!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Tears, unrestrained, fell from my brother’s eyes; a sense of mortal
agony crept over my frame. Before, I had only imagined the
wretchedness of my desolated home; the reality came on me as a new, and
a not less terrible, disaster. I tried to calm Ernest; I enquired more
minutely concerning my father, and here I named my cousin. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “She most of all,” said Ernest, “requires consolation; she accused
herself of having caused the death of my brother, and that made her
very wretched. But since the murderer has been discovered—” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The murderer discovered! Good God! how can that be? who could attempt
to pursue him? It is impossible; one might as well try to overtake the
winds, or confine a mountain-stream with a straw. I saw him too; he
was free last night!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I do not know what you mean,” replied my brother, in accents of
wonder, “but to us the discovery we have made completes our misery. No
one would believe it at first; and even now Elizabeth will not be
convinced, notwithstanding all the evidence. Indeed, who would credit
that Justine Moritz, who was so amiable, and fond of all the family,
could suddenly become so capable of so frightful, so appalling a crime?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Justine Moritz! Poor, poor girl, is she the accused? But it is
wrongfully; every one knows that; no one believes it, surely, Ernest?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No one did at first; but several circumstances came out, that have
almost forced conviction upon us; and her own behaviour has been so
confused, as to add to the evidence of facts a weight that, I fear,
leaves no hope for doubt. But she will be tried today, and you will
then hear all.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He then related that, the morning on which the murder of poor William
had been discovered, Justine had been taken ill, and confined to her
bed for several days. During this interval, one of the servants,
happening to examine the apparel she had worn on the night of the
murder, had discovered in her pocket the picture of my mother, which
had been judged to be the temptation of the murderer. The servant
instantly showed it to one of the others, who, without saying a word to
any of the family, went to a magistrate; and, upon their deposition,
Justine was apprehended. On being charged with the fact, the poor girl
confirmed the suspicion in a great measure by her extreme confusion of
manner. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This was a strange tale, but it did not shake my faith; and I replied
earnestly, “You are all mistaken; I know the murderer. Justine, poor,
good Justine, is innocent.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> At that instant my father entered. I saw unhappiness deeply impressed
on his countenance, but he endeavoured to welcome me cheerfully; and,
after we had exchanged our mournful greeting, would have introduced
some other topic than that of our disaster, had not Ernest exclaimed,
“Good God, papa! Victor says that he knows who was the murderer of
poor William.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “We do also, unfortunately,” replied my father, “for indeed I had
rather have been for ever ignorant than have discovered so much
depravity and ungratitude in one I valued so highly.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If she is, God forbid that she should suffer as guilty. She is to be
tried today, and I hope, I sincerely hope, that she will be acquitted.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This speech calmed me. I was firmly convinced in my own mind that
Justine, and indeed every human being, was guiltless of this murder. I
had no fear, therefore, that any circumstantial evidence could be
brought forward strong enough to convict her. My tale was not one to
announce publicly; its astounding horror would be looked upon as
madness by the vulgar. Did any one indeed exist, except I, the
creator, who would believe, unless his senses convinced him, in the
existence of the living monument of presumption and rash ignorance
which I had let loose upon the world? </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We were soon joined by Elizabeth. Time had altered her since I last
beheld her; it had endowed her with loveliness surpassing the beauty of
her childish years. There was the same candour, the same vivacity, but
it was allied to an expression more full of sensibility and intellect.
She welcomed me with the greatest affection. “Your arrival, my dear
cousin,” said she, “fills me with hope. You perhaps will find some
means to justify my poor guiltless Justine. Alas! who is safe, if she
be convicted of crime? I rely on her innocence as certainly as I do
upon my own. Our misfortune is doubly hard to us; we have not only
lost that lovely darling boy, but this poor girl, whom I sincerely
love, is to be torn away by even a worse fate. If she is condemned, I
never shall know joy more. But she will not, I am sure she will not;
and then I shall be happy again, even after the sad death of my little
William.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “She is innocent, my Elizabeth,” said I, “and that shall
be proved; fear nothing, but let your spirits be cheered by the assurance
of her acquittal.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “How kind and generous you are! every one else believes in her guilt,
and that made me wretched, for I knew that it was impossible: and to
see every one else prejudiced in so deadly a manner rendered me
hopeless and despairing.” She wept. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Dearest niece,” said my father, “dry your tears. If she
is, as you believe, innocent, rely on the justice of our laws, and the
activity with which I shall prevent the slightest shadow of
partiality.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We passed a few sad hours until eleven o’clock, when the trial was to
commence. My father and the rest of the family being obliged to attend
as witnesses, I accompanied them to the court. During the whole of
this wretched mockery of justice I suffered living torture. It was to
be decided whether the result of my curiosity and lawless devices would
cause the death of two of my fellow beings: one a smiling babe full of
innocence and joy, the other far more dreadfully murdered, with every
aggravation of infamy that could make the murder memorable in horror.
Justine also was a girl of merit and possessed qualities which promised
to render her life happy; now all was to be obliterated in an
ignominious grave, and I the cause! A thousand times rather would I
have confessed myself guilty of the crime ascribed to Justine, but I
was absent when it was committed, and such a declaration would have
been considered as the ravings of a madman and would not have
exculpated her who suffered through me. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The appearance of Justine was calm. She was dressed in mourning, and
her countenance, always engaging, was rendered, by the solemnity of her
feelings, exquisitely beautiful. Yet she appeared confident in
innocence and did not tremble, although gazed on and execrated by
thousands, for all the kindness which her beauty might otherwise have
excited was obliterated in the minds of the spectators by the
imagination of the enormity she was supposed to have committed. She
was tranquil, yet her tranquillity was evidently constrained; and as
her confusion had before been adduced as a proof of her guilt, she
worked up her mind to an appearance of courage. When she entered the
court she threw her eyes round it and quickly discovered where we were
seated. A tear seemed to dim her eye when she saw us, but she quickly
recovered herself, and a look of sorrowful affection seemed to attest
her utter guiltlessness. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The trial began, and after the advocate against her had stated the
charge, several witnesses were called. Several strange facts combined
against her, which might have staggered anyone who had not such proof
of her innocence as I had. She had been out the whole of the night on
which the murder had been committed and towards morning had been
perceived by a market-woman not far from the spot where the body of the
murdered child had been afterwards found. The woman asked her what she
did there, but she looked very strangely and only returned a confused
and unintelligible answer. She returned to the house about eight
o’clock, and when one inquired where she had passed the night, she
replied that she had been looking for the child and demanded earnestly
if anything had been heard concerning him. When shown the body, she
fell into violent hysterics and kept her bed for several days. The
picture was then produced which the servant had found in her pocket;
and when Elizabeth, in a faltering voice, proved that it was the same
which, an hour before the child had been missed, she had placed round
his neck, a murmur of horror and indignation filled the court. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Justine was called on for her defence. As the trial had proceeded, her
countenance had altered. Surprise, horror, and misery were strongly
expressed. Sometimes she struggled with her tears, but when she was
desired to plead, she collected her powers and spoke in an audible
although variable voice. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “God knows,” she said, “how entirely I am innocent. But I
do not pretend that my protestations should acquit me; I rest my innocence
on a plain and simple explanation of the facts which have been adduced
against me, and I hope the character I have always borne will incline my
judges to a favourable interpretation where any circumstance appears
doubtful or suspicious.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She then related that, by the permission of Elizabeth, she had passed
the evening of the night on which the murder had been committed at the
house of an aunt at Chêne, a village situated at about a league from
Geneva. On her return, at about nine o’clock, she met a man who asked
her if she had seen anything of the child who was lost. She was
alarmed by this account and passed several hours in looking for him,
when the gates of Geneva were shut, and she was forced to remain
several hours of the night in a barn belonging to a cottage, being
unwilling to call up the inhabitants, to whom she was well known. Most
of the night she spent here watching; towards morning she believed that
she slept for a few minutes; some steps disturbed her, and she awoke.
It was dawn, and she quitted her asylum, that she might again endeavour
to find my brother. If she had gone near the spot where his body lay,
it was without her knowledge. That she had been bewildered when
questioned by the market-woman was not surprising, since she had passed
a sleepless night and the fate of poor William was yet uncertain.
Concerning the picture she could give no account. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I know,” continued the unhappy victim, “how heavily and
fatally this one circumstance weighs against me, but I have no power of
explaining it; and when I have expressed my utter ignorance, I am only left
to conjecture concerning the probabilities by which it might have been
placed in my pocket. But here also I am checked. I believe that I have no
enemy on earth, and none surely would have been so wicked as to destroy me
wantonly. Did the murderer place it there? I know of no opportunity
afforded him for so doing; or, if I had, why should he have stolen the
jewel, to part with it again so soon? </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I commit my cause to the justice of my judges, yet I see no room for
hope. I beg permission to have a few witnesses examined concerning my
character, and if their testimony shall not overweigh my supposed
guilt, I must be condemned, although I would pledge my salvation on my
innocence.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Several witnesses were called who had known her for many years, and
they spoke well of her; but fear and hatred of the crime of which they
supposed her guilty rendered them timorous and unwilling to come
forward. Elizabeth saw even this last resource, her excellent
dispositions and irreproachable conduct, about to fail the accused,
when, although violently agitated, she desired permission to address
the court. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am,” said she, “the cousin of the unhappy child who
was murdered, or rather his sister, for I was educated by and have lived
with his parents ever since and even long before his birth. It may
therefore be judged indecent in me to come forward on this occasion, but
when I see a fellow creature about to perish through the cowardice of her
pretended friends, I wish to be allowed to speak, that I may say what I
know of her character. I am well acquainted with the accused. I have lived
in the same house with her, at one time for five and at another for nearly
two years. During all that period she appeared to me the most amiable and
benevolent of human creatures. She nursed Madame Frankenstein, my aunt, in
her last illness, with the greatest affection and care and afterwards
attended her own mother during a tedious illness, in a manner that excited
the admiration of all who knew her, after which she again lived in my
uncle’s house, where she was beloved by all the family. She was
warmly attached to the child who is now dead and acted towards him like a
most affectionate mother. For my own part, I do not hesitate to say that,
notwithstanding all the evidence produced against her, I believe and rely
on her perfect innocence. She had no temptation for such an action; as to
the bauble on which the chief proof rests, if she had earnestly desired it,
I should have willingly given it to her, so much do I esteem and value
her.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> A murmur of approbation followed Elizabeth’s simple and powerful
appeal, but it was excited by her generous interference, and not in
favour of poor Justine, on whom the public indignation was turned with
renewed violence, charging her with the blackest ingratitude. She
herself wept as Elizabeth spoke, but she did not answer. My own
agitation and anguish was extreme during the whole trial. I believed
in her innocence; I knew it. Could the dæmon who had (I did not for a
minute doubt) murdered my brother also in his hellish sport have
betrayed the innocent to death and ignominy? I could not sustain the
horror of my situation, and when I perceived that the popular voice and
the countenances of the judges had already condemned my unhappy victim,
I rushed out of the court in agony. The tortures of the accused did
not equal mine; she was sustained by innocence, but the fangs of
remorse tore my bosom and would not forgo their hold. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I passed a night of unmingled wretchedness. In the morning I went to
the court; my lips and throat were parched. I dared not ask the fatal
question, but I was known, and the officer guessed the cause of my
visit. The ballots had been thrown; they were all black, and Justine
was condemned. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I cannot pretend to describe what I then felt. I had before
experienced sensations of horror, and I have endeavoured to bestow upon
them adequate expressions, but words cannot convey an idea of the
heart-sickening despair that I then endured. The person to whom I
addressed myself added that Justine had already confessed her guilt.
“That evidence,” he observed, “was hardly required in so glaring a
case, but I am glad of it, and, indeed, none of our judges like to
condemn a criminal upon circumstantial evidence, be it ever so
decisive.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This was strange and unexpected intelligence; what could it mean? Had
my eyes deceived me? And was I really as mad as the whole world would
believe me to be if I disclosed the object of my suspicions? I
hastened to return home, and Elizabeth eagerly demanded the result. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My cousin,” replied I, “it is decided as you may have expected; all
judges had rather that ten innocent should suffer than that one guilty
should escape. But she has confessed.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This was a dire blow to poor Elizabeth, who had relied with firmness upon
Justine’s innocence. “Alas!” said she. “How shall I
ever again believe in human goodness? Justine, whom I loved and esteemed as
my sister, how could she put on those smiles of innocence only to betray?
Her mild eyes seemed incapable of any severity or guile, and yet she has
committed a murder.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Soon after we heard that the poor victim had expressed a desire to see my
cousin. My father wished her not to go but said that he left it to her own
judgment and feelings to decide. “Yes,” said Elizabeth,
“I will go, although she is guilty; and you, Victor, shall accompany
me; I cannot go alone.” The idea of this visit was torture to me, yet
I could not refuse. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We entered the gloomy prison chamber and beheld Justine sitting on some
straw at the farther end; her hands were manacled, and her head rested on
her knees. She rose on seeing us enter, and when we were left alone with
her, she threw herself at the feet of Elizabeth, weeping bitterly. My
cousin wept also. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, Justine!” said she. “Why did you rob me of my last consolation?
I relied on your innocence, and although I was then very wretched, I
was not so miserable as I am now.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And do you also believe that I am so very, very wicked? Do you also
join with my enemies to crush me, to condemn me as a murderer?” Her
voice was suffocated with sobs. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Rise, my poor girl,” said Elizabeth; “why do you kneel,
if you are innocent? I am not one of your enemies, I believed you
guiltless, notwithstanding every evidence, until I heard that you had
yourself declared your guilt. That report, you say, is false; and be
assured, dear Justine, that nothing can shake my confidence in you for a
moment, but your own confession.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I did confess, but I confessed a lie. I confessed, that I might
obtain absolution; but now that falsehood lies heavier at my heart than
all my other sins. The God of heaven forgive me! Ever since I was
condemned, my confessor has besieged me; he threatened and menaced,
until I almost began to think that I was the monster that he said I
was. He threatened excommunication and hell fire in my last moments if
I continued obdurate. Dear lady, I had none to support me; all looked
on me as a wretch doomed to ignominy and perdition. What could I do?
In an evil hour I subscribed to a lie; and now only am I truly
miserable.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She paused, weeping, and then continued, “I thought with horror, my
sweet lady, that you should believe your Justine, whom your blessed
aunt had so highly honoured, and whom you loved, was a creature capable
of a crime which none but the devil himself could have perpetrated.
Dear William! dearest blessed child! I soon shall see you again in
heaven, where we shall all be happy; and that consoles me, going as I
am to suffer ignominy and death.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, Justine! Forgive me for having for one moment distrusted you.
Why did you confess? But do not mourn, dear girl. Do not fear. I
will proclaim, I will prove your innocence. I will melt the stony
hearts of your enemies by my tears and prayers. You shall not die!
You, my playfellow, my companion, my sister, perish on the scaffold!
No! No! I never could survive so horrible a misfortune.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Justine shook her head mournfully. “I do not fear to die,” she said;
“that pang is past. God raises my weakness and gives me courage to
endure the worst. I leave a sad and bitter world; and if you remember
me and think of me as of one unjustly condemned, I am resigned to the
fate awaiting me. Learn from me, dear lady, to submit in patience to
the will of heaven!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> During this conversation I had retired to a corner of the prison room,
where I could conceal the horrid anguish that possessed me. Despair!
Who dared talk of that? The poor victim, who on the morrow was to pass
the awful boundary between life and death, felt not, as I did, such
deep and bitter agony. I gnashed my teeth and ground them together,
uttering a groan that came from my inmost soul. Justine started. When
she saw who it was, she approached me and said, “Dear sir, you are very
kind to visit me; you, I hope, do not believe that I am guilty?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I could not answer. “No, Justine,” said Elizabeth; “he is more
convinced of your innocence than I was, for even when he heard that you
had confessed, he did not credit it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I truly thank him. In these last moments I feel the sincerest
gratitude towards those who think of me with kindness. How sweet is
the affection of others to such a wretch as I am! It removes more than
half my misfortune, and I feel as if I could die in peace now that my
innocence is acknowledged by you, dear lady, and your cousin.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Thus the poor sufferer tried to comfort others and herself. She indeed
gained the resignation she desired. But I, the true murderer, felt the
never-dying worm alive in my bosom, which allowed of no hope or
consolation. Elizabeth also wept and was unhappy, but hers also was
the misery of innocence, which, like a cloud that passes over the fair
moon, for a while hides but cannot tarnish its brightness. Anguish and
despair had penetrated into the core of my heart; I bore a hell within
me which nothing could extinguish. We stayed several hours with
Justine, and it was with great difficulty that Elizabeth could tear
herself away. “I wish,” cried she, “that I were to die with you; I
cannot live in this world of misery.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Justine assumed an air of cheerfulness, while she with difficulty
repressed her bitter tears. She embraced Elizabeth and said in a voice
of half-suppressed emotion, “Farewell, sweet lady, dearest Elizabeth,
my beloved and only friend; may heaven, in its bounty, bless and
preserve you; may this be the last misfortune that you will ever
suffer! Live, and be happy, and make others so.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> And on the morrow Justine died. Elizabeth’s heart-rending eloquence
failed to move the judges from their settled conviction in the
criminality of the saintly sufferer. My passionate and indignant
appeals were lost upon them. And when I received their cold answers
and heard the harsh, unfeeling reasoning of these men, my purposed
avowal died away on my lips. Thus I might proclaim myself a madman,
but not revoke the sentence passed upon my wretched victim. She
perished on the scaffold as a murderess! </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> From the tortures of my own heart, I turned to contemplate the deep and
voiceless grief of my Elizabeth. This also was my doing! And my
father’s woe, and the desolation of that late so smiling home all was
the work of my thrice-accursed hands! Ye weep, unhappy ones, but these
are not your last tears! Again shall you raise the funeral wail, and
the sound of your lamentations shall again and again be heard!
Frankenstein, your son, your kinsman, your early, much-loved friend; he
who would spend each vital drop of blood for your sakes, who has no
thought nor sense of joy except as it is mirrored also in your dear
countenances, who would fill the air with blessings and spend his life
in serving you—he bids you weep, to shed countless tears; happy beyond
his hopes, if thus inexorable fate be satisfied, and if the destruction
pause before the peace of the grave have succeeded to your sad torments! </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Thus spoke my prophetic soul, as, torn by remorse, horror, and despair,
I beheld those I loved spend vain sorrow upon the graves of William and
Justine, the first hapless victims to my unhallowed arts. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Nothing is more painful to the human mind than, after the feelings have
been worked up by a quick succession of events, the dead calmness of
inaction and certainty which follows and deprives the soul both of hope
and fear. Justine died, she rested, and I was alive. The blood flowed
freely in my veins, but a weight of despair and remorse pressed on my
heart which nothing could remove. Sleep fled from my eyes; I wandered
like an evil spirit, for I had committed deeds of mischief beyond
description horrible, and more, much more (I persuaded myself) was yet
behind. Yet my heart overflowed with kindness and the love of virtue.
I had begun life with benevolent intentions and thirsted for the moment
when I should put them in practice and make myself useful to my fellow
beings. Now all was blasted; instead of that serenity of conscience
which allowed me to look back upon the past with self-satisfaction, and
from thence to gather promise of new hopes, I was seized by remorse and
the sense of guilt, which hurried me away to a hell of intense tortures
such as no language can describe. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This state of mind preyed upon my health, which had perhaps never
entirely recovered from the first shock it had sustained. I shunned
the face of man; all sound of joy or complacency was torture to me;
solitude was my only consolation—deep, dark, deathlike solitude. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> My father observed with pain the alteration perceptible in my disposition
and habits and endeavoured by arguments deduced from the feelings of his
serene conscience and guiltless life to inspire me with fortitude and
awaken in me the courage to dispel the dark cloud which brooded over me.
“Do you think, Victor,” said he, “that I do not suffer
also? No one could love a child more than I loved your
brother”—tears came into his eyes as he spoke—“but
is it not a duty to the survivors that we should refrain from augmenting
their unhappiness by an appearance of immoderate grief? It is also a duty
owed to yourself, for excessive sorrow prevents improvement or enjoyment,
or even the discharge of daily usefulness, without which no man is fit for
society.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This advice, although good, was totally inapplicable to my case; I
should have been the first to hide my grief and console my friends if
remorse had not mingled its bitterness, and terror its alarm, with my
other sensations. Now I could only answer my father with a look of
despair and endeavour to hide myself from his view. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> About this time we retired to our house at Belrive. This change was
particularly agreeable to me. The shutting of the gates regularly at
ten o’clock and the impossibility of remaining on the lake after that
hour had rendered our residence within the walls of Geneva very irksome
to me. I was now free. Often, after the rest of the family had
retired for the night, I took the boat and passed many hours upon the
water. Sometimes, with my sails set, I was carried by the wind; and
sometimes, after rowing into the middle of the lake, I left the boat to
pursue its own course and gave way to my own miserable reflections. I
was often tempted, when all was at peace around me, and I the only
unquiet thing that wandered restless in a scene so beautiful and
heavenly—if I except some bat, or the frogs, whose harsh and
interrupted croaking was heard only when I approached the shore—often,
I say, I was tempted to plunge into the silent lake, that the waters
might close over me and my calamities for ever. But I was restrained,
when I thought of the heroic and suffering Elizabeth, whom I tenderly
loved, and whose existence was bound up in mine. I thought also of my
father and surviving brother; should I by my base desertion leave them
exposed and unprotected to the malice of the fiend whom I had let loose
among them? </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> At these moments I wept bitterly and wished that peace would revisit my
mind only that I might afford them consolation and happiness. But that
could not be. Remorse extinguished every hope. I had been the author of
unalterable evils, and I lived in daily fear lest the monster whom I had
created should perpetrate some new wickedness. I had an obscure feeling
that all was not over and that he would still commit some signal crime,
which by its enormity should almost efface the recollection of the past.
There was always scope for fear so long as anything I loved remained
behind. My abhorrence of this fiend cannot be conceived. When I thought of
him I gnashed my teeth, my eyes became inflamed, and I ardently wished to
extinguish that life which I had so thoughtlessly bestowed. When I
reflected on his crimes and malice, my hatred and revenge burst all bounds
of moderation. I would have made a pilgrimage to the highest peak of the
Andes, could I, when there, have precipitated him to their base. I wished
to see him again, that I might wreak the utmost extent of abhorrence on his
head and avenge the deaths of William and Justine. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Our house was the house of mourning. My father’s health was deeply
shaken by the horror of the recent events. Elizabeth was sad and
desponding; she no longer took delight in her ordinary occupations; all
pleasure seemed to her sacrilege toward the dead; eternal woe and tears she
then thought was the just tribute she should pay to innocence so blasted
and destroyed. She was no longer that happy creature who in earlier youth
wandered with me on the banks of the lake and talked with ecstasy of our
future prospects. The first of those sorrows which are sent to wean us from
the earth had visited her, and its dimming influence quenched her dearest
smiles. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “When I reflect, my dear cousin,” said she, “on the miserable death of
Justine Moritz, I no longer see the world and its works as they before
appeared to me. Before, I looked upon the accounts of vice and
injustice that I read in books or heard from others as tales of ancient
days or imaginary evils; at least they were remote and more familiar to
reason than to the imagination; but now misery has come home, and men
appear to me as monsters thirsting for each other’s blood. Yet I am
certainly unjust. Everybody believed that poor girl to be guilty; and
if she could have committed the crime for which she suffered, assuredly
she would have been the most depraved of human creatures. For the sake
of a few jewels, to have murdered the son of her benefactor and friend,
a child whom she had nursed from its birth, and appeared to love as if
it had been her own! I could not consent to the death of any human
being, but certainly I should have thought such a creature unfit to
remain in the society of men. But she was innocent. I know, I feel
she was innocent; you are of the same opinion, and that confirms me.
Alas! Victor, when falsehood can look so like the truth, who can
assure themselves of certain happiness? I feel as if I were walking on
the edge of a precipice, towards which thousands are crowding and
endeavouring to plunge me into the abyss. William and Justine were
assassinated, and the murderer escapes; he walks about the world free,
and perhaps respected. But even if I were condemned to suffer on the
scaffold for the same crimes, I would not change places with such a
wretch.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I listened to this discourse with the extremest agony. I, not in deed,
but in effect, was the true murderer. Elizabeth read my anguish in my
countenance, and kindly taking my hand, said, “My dearest friend, you
must calm yourself. These events have affected me, God knows how
deeply; but I am not so wretched as you are. There is an expression of
despair, and sometimes of revenge, in your countenance that makes me
tremble. Dear Victor, banish these dark passions. Remember the
friends around you, who centre all their hopes in you. Have we lost
the power of rendering you happy? Ah! While we love, while we are
true to each other, here in this land of peace and beauty, your native
country, we may reap every tranquil blessing—what can disturb our
peace?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> And could not such words from her whom I fondly prized before every
other gift of fortune suffice to chase away the fiend that lurked in my
heart? Even as she spoke I drew near to her, as if in terror, lest at
that very moment the destroyer had been near to rob me of her. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Thus not the tenderness of friendship, nor the beauty of earth, nor of
heaven, could redeem my soul from woe; the very accents of love were
ineffectual. I was encompassed by a cloud which no beneficial
influence could penetrate. The wounded deer dragging its fainting
limbs to some untrodden brake, there to gaze upon the arrow which had
pierced it, and to die, was but a type of me. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Sometimes I could cope with the sullen despair that overwhelmed me, but
sometimes the whirlwind passions of my soul drove me to seek, by bodily
exercise and by change of place, some relief from my intolerable
sensations. It was during an access of this kind that I suddenly left
my home, and bending my steps towards the near Alpine valleys, sought
in the magnificence, the eternity of such scenes, to forget myself and
my ephemeral, because human, sorrows. My wanderings were directed
towards the valley of Chamounix. I had visited it frequently during my
boyhood. Six years had passed since then: _I_ was a wreck, but nought
had changed in those savage and enduring scenes. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I performed the first part of my journey on horseback. I afterwards
hired a mule, as the more sure-footed and least liable to receive
injury on these rugged roads. The weather was fine; it was about the
middle of the month of August, nearly two months after the death of
Justine, that miserable epoch from which I dated all my woe. The
weight upon my spirit was sensibly lightened as I plunged yet deeper in
the ravine of Arve. The immense mountains and precipices that overhung
me on every side, the sound of the river raging among the rocks, and
the dashing of the waterfalls around spoke of a power mighty as
Omnipotence—and I ceased to fear or to bend before any being less
almighty than that which had created and ruled the elements, here
displayed in their most terrific guise. Still, as I ascended higher,
the valley assumed a more magnificent and astonishing character.
Ruined castles hanging on the precipices of piny mountains, the
impetuous Arve, and cottages every here and there peeping forth from
among the trees formed a scene of singular beauty. But it was
augmented and rendered sublime by the mighty Alps, whose white and
shining pyramids and domes towered above all, as belonging to another
earth, the habitations of another race of beings. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I passed the bridge of Pélissier, where the ravine, which the river
forms, opened before me, and I began to ascend the mountain that
overhangs it. Soon after, I entered the valley of Chamounix. This
valley is more wonderful and sublime, but not so beautiful and
picturesque as that of Servox, through which I had just passed. The
high and snowy mountains were its immediate boundaries, but I saw no
more ruined castles and fertile fields. Immense glaciers approached
the road; I heard the rumbling thunder of the falling avalanche and
marked the smoke of its passage. Mont Blanc, the supreme and
magnificent Mont Blanc, raised itself from the surrounding _aiguilles_,
and its tremendous _dôme_ overlooked the valley. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> A tingling long-lost sense of pleasure often came across me during this
journey. Some turn in the road, some new object suddenly perceived and
recognised, reminded me of days gone by, and were associated with the
lighthearted gaiety of boyhood. The very winds whispered in soothing
accents, and maternal Nature bade me weep no more. Then again the
kindly influence ceased to act—I found myself fettered again to grief
and indulging in all the misery of reflection. Then I spurred on my
animal, striving so to forget the world, my fears, and more than all,
myself—or, in a more desperate fashion, I alighted and threw myself on
the grass, weighed down by horror and despair. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> At length I arrived at the village of Chamounix. Exhaustion succeeded
to the extreme fatigue both of body and of mind which I had endured.
For a short space of time I remained at the window watching the pallid
lightnings that played above Mont Blanc and listening to the rushing of
the Arve, which pursued its noisy way beneath. The same lulling sounds
acted as a lullaby to my too keen sensations; when I placed my head
upon my pillow, sleep crept over me; I felt it as it came and blessed
the giver of oblivion. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I spent the following day roaming through the valley. I stood beside
the sources of the Arveiron, which take their rise in a glacier, that
with slow pace is advancing down from the summit of the hills to
barricade the valley. The abrupt sides of vast mountains were before
me; the icy wall of the glacier overhung me; a few shattered pines were
scattered around; and the solemn silence of this glorious
presence-chamber of imperial Nature was broken only by the brawling
waves or the fall of some vast fragment, the thunder sound of the
avalanche or the cracking, reverberated along the mountains, of the
accumulated ice, which, through the silent working of immutable laws,
was ever and anon rent and torn, as if it had been but a plaything in
their hands. These sublime and magnificent scenes afforded me the
greatest consolation that I was capable of receiving. They elevated me
from all littleness of feeling, and although they did not remove my
grief, they subdued and tranquillised it. In some degree, also, they
diverted my mind from the thoughts over which it had brooded for the
last month. I retired to rest at night; my slumbers, as it were,
waited on and ministered to by the assemblance of grand shapes which I
had contemplated during the day. They congregated round me; the
unstained snowy mountain-top, the glittering pinnacle, the pine woods,
and ragged bare ravine, the eagle, soaring amidst the clouds—they all
gathered round me and bade me be at peace. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Where had they fled when the next morning I awoke? All of
soul-inspiriting fled with sleep, and dark melancholy clouded every
thought. The rain was pouring in torrents, and thick mists hid the
summits of the mountains, so that I even saw not the faces of those
mighty friends. Still I would penetrate their misty veil and seek them
in their cloudy retreats. What were rain and storm to me? My mule was
brought to the door, and I resolved to ascend to the summit of
Montanvert. I remembered the effect that the view of the tremendous
and ever-moving glacier had produced upon my mind when I first saw it.
It had then filled me with a sublime ecstasy that gave wings to the
soul and allowed it to soar from the obscure world to light and joy.
The sight of the awful and majestic in nature had indeed always the
effect of solemnising my mind and causing me to forget the passing
cares of life. I determined to go without a guide, for I was well
acquainted with the path, and the presence of another would destroy the
solitary grandeur of the scene. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The ascent is precipitous, but the path is cut into continual and short
windings, which enable you to surmount the perpendicularity of the
mountain. It is a scene terrifically desolate. In a thousand spots
the traces of the winter avalanche may be perceived, where trees lie
broken and strewed on the ground, some entirely destroyed, others bent,
leaning upon the jutting rocks of the mountain or transversely upon
other trees. The path, as you ascend higher, is intersected by ravines
of snow, down which stones continually roll from above; one of them is
particularly dangerous, as the slightest sound, such as even speaking
in a loud voice, produces a concussion of air sufficient to draw
destruction upon the head of the speaker. The pines are not tall or
luxuriant, but they are sombre and add an air of severity to the scene.
I looked on the valley beneath; vast mists were rising from the rivers
which ran through it and curling in thick wreaths around the opposite
mountains, whose summits were hid in the uniform clouds, while rain
poured from the dark sky and added to the melancholy impression I
received from the objects around me. Alas! Why does man boast of
sensibilities superior to those apparent in the brute; it only renders
them more necessary beings. If our impulses were confined to hunger,
thirst, and desire, we might be nearly free; but now we are moved by
every wind that blows and a chance word or scene that that word may
convey to us. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We rest; a dream has power to poison sleep.
     We rise; one wand’ring thought pollutes the day.
  We feel, conceive, or reason; laugh or weep,
     Embrace fond woe, or cast our cares away;
  It is the same: for, be it joy or sorrow,
     The path of its departure still is free.
  Man’s yesterday may ne’er be like his morrow;
     Nought may endure but mutability! </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was nearly noon when I arrived at the top of the ascent. For some
time I sat upon the rock that overlooks the sea of ice. A mist covered
both that and the surrounding mountains. Presently a breeze dissipated
the cloud, and I descended upon the glacier. The surface is very
uneven, rising like the waves of a troubled sea, descending low, and
interspersed by rifts that sink deep. The field of ice is almost a
league in width, but I spent nearly two hours in crossing it. The
opposite mountain is a bare perpendicular rock. From the side where I
now stood Montanvert was exactly opposite, at the distance of a league;
and above it rose Mont Blanc, in awful majesty. I remained in a recess
of the rock, gazing on this wonderful and stupendous scene. The sea,
or rather the vast river of ice, wound among its dependent mountains,
whose aerial summits hung over its recesses. Their icy and glittering
peaks shone in the sunlight over the clouds. My heart, which was
before sorrowful, now swelled with something like joy; I exclaimed,
“Wandering spirits, if indeed ye wander, and do not rest in your narrow
beds, allow me this faint happiness, or take me, as your companion,
away from the joys of life.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As I said this I suddenly beheld the figure of a man, at some distance,
advancing towards me with superhuman speed. He bounded over the
crevices in the ice, among which I had walked with caution; his
stature, also, as he approached, seemed to exceed that of man. I was
troubled; a mist came over my eyes, and I felt a faintness seize me,
but I was quickly restored by the cold gale of the mountains. I
perceived, as the shape came nearer (sight tremendous and abhorred!)
that it was the wretch whom I had created. I trembled with rage and
horror, resolving to wait his approach and then close with him in
mortal combat. He approached; his countenance bespoke bitter anguish,
combined with disdain and malignity, while its unearthly ugliness
rendered it almost too horrible for human eyes. But I scarcely
observed this; rage and hatred had at first deprived me of utterance,
and I recovered only to overwhelm him with words expressive of furious
detestation and contempt. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Devil,” I exclaimed, “do you dare approach me? And do
not you fear the fierce vengeance of my arm wreaked on your miserable head?
Begone, vile insect! Or rather, stay, that I may trample you to dust! And,
oh! That I could, with the extinction of your miserable existence, restore
those victims whom you have so diabolically murdered!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I expected this reception,” said the dæmon. “All men hate the
wretched; how, then, must I be hated, who am miserable beyond all
living things! Yet you, my creator, detest and spurn me, thy creature,
to whom thou art bound by ties only dissoluble by the annihilation of
one of us. You purpose to kill me. How dare you sport thus with life?
Do your duty towards me, and I will do mine towards you and the rest of
mankind. If you will comply with my conditions, I will leave them and
you at peace; but if you refuse, I will glut the maw of death, until it
be satiated with the blood of your remaining friends.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Abhorred monster! Fiend that thou art! The tortures of hell are too
mild a vengeance for thy crimes. Wretched devil! You reproach me with
your creation, come on, then, that I may extinguish the spark which I
so negligently bestowed.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> My rage was without bounds; I sprang on him, impelled by all the
feelings which can arm one being against the existence of another. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Be calm! I entreat you to hear me before you give vent to your hatred
on my devoted head. Have I not suffered enough, that you seek to
increase my misery? Life, although it may only be an accumulation of
anguish, is dear to me, and I will defend it. Remember, thou hast made
me more powerful than thyself; my height is superior to thine, my
joints more supple. But I will not be tempted to set myself in
opposition to thee. I am thy creature, and I will be even mild and
docile to my natural lord and king if thou wilt also perform thy part,
the which thou owest me. Oh, Frankenstein, be not equitable to every
other and trample upon me alone, to whom thy justice, and even thy
clemency and affection, is most due. Remember that I am thy creature;
I ought to be thy Adam, but I am rather the fallen angel, whom thou
drivest from joy for no misdeed. Everywhere I see bliss, from which I
alone am irrevocably excluded. I was benevolent and good; misery made
me a fiend. Make me happy, and I shall again be virtuous.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Begone! I will not hear you. There can be no community between you
and me; we are enemies. Begone, or let us try our strength in a fight,
in which one must fall.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “How can I move thee? Will no entreaties cause thee to turn a
favourable eye upon thy creature, who implores thy goodness and
compassion? Believe me, Frankenstein, I was benevolent; my soul glowed
with love and humanity; but am I not alone, miserably alone? You, my
creator, abhor me; what hope can I gather from your fellow creatures,
who owe me nothing? They spurn and hate me. The desert mountains and
dreary glaciers are my refuge. I have wandered here many days; the
caves of ice, which I only do not fear, are a dwelling to me, and the
only one which man does not grudge. These bleak skies I hail, for they
are kinder to me than your fellow beings. If the multitude of mankind
knew of my existence, they would do as you do, and arm themselves for
my destruction. Shall I not then hate them who abhor me? I will keep
no terms with my enemies. I am miserable, and they shall share my
wretchedness. Yet it is in your power to recompense me, and deliver
them from an evil which it only remains for you to make so great, that
not only you and your family, but thousands of others, shall be
swallowed up in the whirlwinds of its rage. Let your compassion be
moved, and do not disdain me. Listen to my tale; when you have heard
that, abandon or commiserate me, as you shall judge that I deserve.
But hear me. The guilty are allowed, by human laws, bloody as they
are, to speak in their own defence before they are condemned. Listen
to me, Frankenstein. You accuse me of murder, and yet you would, with
a satisfied conscience, destroy your own creature. Oh, praise the
eternal justice of man! Yet I ask you not to spare me; listen to me,
and then, if you can, and if you will, destroy the work of your hands.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Why do you call to my remembrance,” I rejoined, “circumstances of
which I shudder to reflect, that I have been the miserable origin and
author? Cursed be the day, abhorred devil, in which you first saw
light! Cursed (although I curse myself) be the hands that formed you!
You have made me wretched beyond expression. You have left me no power
to consider whether I am just to you or not. Begone! Relieve me from
the sight of your detested form.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Thus I relieve thee, my creator,” he said, and placed his hated hands
before my eyes, which I flung from me with violence; “thus I take from
thee a sight which you abhor. Still thou canst listen to me and grant
me thy compassion. By the virtues that I once possessed, I demand this
from you. Hear my tale; it is long and strange, and the temperature of
this place is not fitting to your fine sensations; come to the hut upon
the mountain. The sun is yet high in the heavens; before it descends
to hide itself behind your snowy precipices and illuminate another
world, you will have heard my story and can decide. On you it rests,
whether I quit for ever the neighbourhood of man and lead a harmless
life, or become the scourge of your fellow creatures and the author of
your own speedy ruin.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As he said this he led the way across the ice; I followed. My heart
was full, and I did not answer him, but as I proceeded, I weighed the
various arguments that he had used and determined at least to listen to
his tale. I was partly urged by curiosity, and compassion confirmed my
resolution. I had hitherto supposed him to be the murderer of my
brother, and I eagerly sought a confirmation or denial of this opinion.
For the first time, also, I felt what the duties of a creator towards
his creature were, and that I ought to render him happy before I
complained of his wickedness. These motives urged me to comply with
his demand. We crossed the ice, therefore, and ascended the opposite
rock. The air was cold, and the rain again began to descend; we
entered the hut, the fiend with an air of exultation, I with a heavy
heart and depressed spirits. But I consented to listen, and seating
myself by the fire which my odious companion had lighted, he thus began
his tale. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is with considerable difficulty that I remember the original era of
my being; all the events of that period appear confused and indistinct.
A strange multiplicity of sensations seized me, and I saw, felt, heard,
and smelt at the same time; and it was, indeed, a long time before I
learned to distinguish between the operations of my various senses. By
degrees, I remember, a stronger light pressed upon my nerves, so that I
was obliged to shut my eyes. Darkness then came over me and troubled
me, but hardly had I felt this when, by opening my eyes, as I now
suppose, the light poured in upon me again. I walked and, I believe,
descended, but I presently found a great alteration in my sensations.
Before, dark and opaque bodies had surrounded me, impervious to my
touch or sight; but I now found that I could wander on at liberty, with
no obstacles which I could not either surmount or avoid. The light
became more and more oppressive to me, and the heat wearying me as I
walked, I sought a place where I could receive shade. This was the
forest near Ingolstadt; and here I lay by the side of a brook resting
from my fatigue, until I felt tormented by hunger and thirst. This
roused me from my nearly dormant state, and I ate some berries which I
found hanging on the trees or lying on the ground. I slaked my thirst
at the brook, and then lying down, was overcome by sleep. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It was dark when I awoke; I felt cold also, and half frightened, as it
were, instinctively, finding myself so desolate. Before I had quitted
your apartment, on a sensation of cold, I had covered myself with some
clothes, but these were insufficient to secure me from the dews of
night. I was a poor, helpless, miserable wretch; I knew, and could
distinguish, nothing; but feeling pain invade me on all sides, I sat
down and wept. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Soon a gentle light stole over the heavens and gave me a sensation of
pleasure. I started up and beheld a radiant form rise from among the
trees. [The moon] I gazed with a kind of wonder. It moved slowly,
but it enlightened my path, and I again went out in search of berries.
I was still cold when under one of the trees I found a huge cloak, with
which I covered myself, and sat down upon the ground. No distinct
ideas occupied my mind; all was confused. I felt light, and hunger,
and thirst, and darkness; innumerable sounds rang in my ears, and on
all sides various scents saluted me; the only object that I could
distinguish was the bright moon, and I fixed my eyes on that with
pleasure. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Several changes of day and night passed, and the orb of night had
greatly lessened, when I began to distinguish my sensations from each
other. I gradually saw plainly the clear stream that supplied me with
drink and the trees that shaded me with their foliage. I was delighted
when I first discovered that a pleasant sound, which often saluted my
ears, proceeded from the throats of the little winged animals who had
often intercepted the light from my eyes. I began also to observe,
with greater accuracy, the forms that surrounded me and to perceive the
boundaries of the radiant roof of light which canopied me. Sometimes I
tried to imitate the pleasant songs of the birds but was unable.
Sometimes I wished to express my sensations in my own mode, but the
uncouth and inarticulate sounds which broke from me frightened me into
silence again. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The moon had disappeared from the night, and again, with a lessened
form, showed itself, while I still remained in the forest. My
sensations had by this time become distinct, and my mind received every
day additional ideas. My eyes became accustomed to the light and to
perceive objects in their right forms; I distinguished the insect from
the herb, and by degrees, one herb from another. I found that the
sparrow uttered none but harsh notes, whilst those of the blackbird and
thrush were sweet and enticing. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “One day, when I was oppressed by cold, I found a fire which had been
left by some wandering beggars, and was overcome with delight at the
warmth I experienced from it. In my joy I thrust my hand into the live
embers, but quickly drew it out again with a cry of pain. How strange,
I thought, that the same cause should produce such opposite effects! I
examined the materials of the fire, and to my joy found it to be
composed of wood. I quickly collected some branches, but they were wet
and would not burn. I was pained at this and sat still watching the
operation of the fire. The wet wood which I had placed near the heat
dried and itself became inflamed. I reflected on this, and by touching
the various branches, I discovered the cause and busied myself in
collecting a great quantity of wood, that I might dry it and have a
plentiful supply of fire. When night came on and brought sleep with
it, I was in the greatest fear lest my fire should be extinguished. I
covered it carefully with dry wood and leaves and placed wet branches
upon it; and then, spreading my cloak, I lay on the ground and sank
into sleep. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It was morning when I awoke, and my first care was to visit the fire.
I uncovered it, and a gentle breeze quickly fanned it into a flame. I
observed this also and contrived a fan of branches, which roused the
embers when they were nearly extinguished. When night came again I
found, with pleasure, that the fire gave light as well as heat and that
the discovery of this element was useful to me in my food, for I found
some of the offals that the travellers had left had been roasted, and
tasted much more savoury than the berries I gathered from the trees. I
tried, therefore, to dress my food in the same manner, placing it on
the live embers. I found that the berries were spoiled by this
operation, and the nuts and roots much improved. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Food, however, became scarce, and I often spent the whole day
searching in vain for a few acorns to assuage the pangs of hunger. When
I found this, I resolved to quit the place that I had hitherto
inhabited, to seek for one where the few wants I experienced would be
more easily satisfied. In this emigration I exceedingly lamented the
loss of the fire which I had obtained through accident and knew not how
to reproduce it. I gave several hours to the serious consideration of
this difficulty, but I was obliged to relinquish all attempt to supply
it, and wrapping myself up in my cloak, I struck across the wood
towards the setting sun. I passed three days in these rambles and at
length discovered the open country. A great fall of snow had taken
place the night before, and the fields were of one uniform white; the
appearance was disconsolate, and I found my feet chilled by the cold
damp substance that covered the ground. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It was about seven in the morning, and I longed to obtain food and
shelter; at length I perceived a small hut, on a rising ground, which
had doubtless been built for the convenience of some shepherd. This
was a new sight to me, and I examined the structure with great
curiosity. Finding the door open, I entered. An old man sat in it,
near a fire, over which he was preparing his breakfast. He turned on
hearing a noise, and perceiving me, shrieked loudly, and quitting the
hut, ran across the fields with a speed of which his debilitated form
hardly appeared capable. His appearance, different from any I had ever
before seen, and his flight somewhat surprised me. But I was enchanted
by the appearance of the hut; here the snow and rain could not
penetrate; the ground was dry; and it presented to me then as exquisite
and divine a retreat as Pandæmonium appeared to the dæmons of hell
after their sufferings in the lake of fire. I greedily devoured the
remnants of the shepherd’s breakfast, which consisted of bread, cheese,
milk, and wine; the latter, however, I did not like. Then, overcome by
fatigue, I lay down among some straw and fell asleep. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It was noon when I awoke, and allured by the warmth of the sun, which
shone brightly on the white ground, I determined to recommence my
travels; and, depositing the remains of the peasant’s breakfast in a
wallet I found, I proceeded across the fields for several hours, until
at sunset I arrived at a village. How miraculous did this appear! The
huts, the neater cottages, and stately houses engaged my admiration by
turns. The vegetables in the gardens, the milk and cheese that I saw
placed at the windows of some of the cottages, allured my appetite. One
of the best of these I entered, but I had hardly placed my foot within
the door before the children shrieked, and one of the women fainted.
The whole village was roused; some fled, some attacked me, until,
grievously bruised by stones and many other kinds of missile weapons, I
escaped to the open country and fearfully took refuge in a low hovel,
quite bare, and making a wretched appearance after the palaces I had
beheld in the village. This hovel however, joined a cottage of a neat
and pleasant appearance, but after my late dearly bought experience, I
dared not enter it. My place of refuge was constructed of wood, but so
low that I could with difficulty sit upright in it. No wood, however,
was placed on the earth, which formed the floor, but it was dry; and
although the wind entered it by innumerable chinks, I found it an
agreeable asylum from the snow and rain. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Here, then, I retreated and lay down happy to have found a shelter,
however miserable, from the inclemency of the season, and still more
from the barbarity of man. As soon as morning dawned I crept from my
kennel, that I might view the adjacent cottage and discover if I could
remain in the habitation I had found. It was situated against the back
of the cottage and surrounded on the sides which were exposed by a pig
sty and a clear pool of water. One part was open, and by that I had
crept in; but now I covered every crevice by which I might be perceived
with stones and wood, yet in such a manner that I might move them on
occasion to pass out; all the light I enjoyed came through the sty, and
that was sufficient for me. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Having thus arranged my dwelling and carpeted it with clean straw, I
retired, for I saw the figure of a man at a distance, and I remembered
too well my treatment the night before to trust myself in his power. I
had first, however, provided for my sustenance for that day by a loaf
of coarse bread, which I purloined, and a cup with which I could drink
more conveniently than from my hand of the pure water which flowed by
my retreat. The floor was a little raised, so that it was kept
perfectly dry, and by its vicinity to the chimney of the cottage it was
tolerably warm. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Being thus provided, I resolved to reside in this hovel until
something should occur which might alter my determination. It was
indeed a paradise compared to the bleak forest, my former residence,
the rain-dropping branches, and dank earth. I ate my breakfast with
pleasure and was about to remove a plank to procure myself a little
water when I heard a step, and looking through a small chink, I beheld
a young creature, with a pail on her head, passing before my hovel. The
girl was young and of gentle demeanour, unlike what I have since found
cottagers and farmhouse servants to be. Yet she was meanly dressed, a
coarse blue petticoat and a linen jacket being her only garb; her fair
hair was plaited but not adorned: she looked patient yet sad. I lost
sight of her, and in about a quarter of an hour she returned bearing
the pail, which was now partly filled with milk. As she walked along,
seemingly incommoded by the burden, a young man met her, whose
countenance expressed a deeper despondence. Uttering a few sounds with
an air of melancholy, he took the pail from her head and bore it to the
cottage himself. She followed, and they disappeared. Presently I saw
the young man again, with some tools in his hand, cross the field
behind the cottage; and the girl was also busied, sometimes in the
house and sometimes in the yard. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “On examining my dwelling, I found that one of the windows of the
cottage had formerly occupied a part of it, but the panes had been
filled up with wood. In one of these was a small and almost
imperceptible chink through which the eye could just penetrate.
Through this crevice a small room was visible, whitewashed and clean
but very bare of furniture. In one corner, near a small fire, sat an
old man, leaning his head on his hands in a disconsolate attitude. The
young girl was occupied in arranging the cottage; but presently she
took something out of a drawer, which employed her hands, and she sat
down beside the old man, who, taking up an instrument, began to play
and to produce sounds sweeter than the voice of the thrush or the
nightingale. It was a lovely sight, even to me, poor wretch who had
never beheld aught beautiful before. The silver hair and benevolent
countenance of the aged cottager won my reverence, while the gentle
manners of the girl enticed my love. He played a sweet mournful air
which I perceived drew tears from the eyes of his amiable companion, of
which the old man took no notice, until she sobbed audibly; he then
pronounced a few sounds, and the fair creature, leaving her work, knelt
at his feet. He raised her and smiled with such kindness and affection
that I felt sensations of a peculiar and overpowering nature; they were
a mixture of pain and pleasure, such as I had never before experienced,
either from hunger or cold, warmth or food; and I withdrew from the
window, unable to bear these emotions. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Soon after this the young man returned, bearing on his shoulders a
load of wood. The girl met him at the door, helped to relieve him of
his burden, and taking some of the fuel into the cottage, placed it on
the fire; then she and the youth went apart into a nook of the cottage,
and he showed her a large loaf and a piece of cheese. She seemed
pleased and went into the garden for some roots and plants, which she
placed in water, and then upon the fire. She afterwards continued her
work, whilst the young man went into the garden and appeared busily
employed in digging and pulling up roots. After he had been employed
thus about an hour, the young woman joined him and they entered the
cottage together. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The old man had, in the meantime, been pensive, but on the appearance
of his companions he assumed a more cheerful air, and they sat down to
eat. The meal was quickly dispatched. The young woman was again
occupied in arranging the cottage, the old man walked before the
cottage in the sun for a few minutes, leaning on the arm of the youth.
Nothing could exceed in beauty the contrast between these two excellent
creatures. One was old, with silver hairs and a countenance beaming
with benevolence and love; the younger was slight and graceful in his
figure, and his features were moulded with the finest symmetry, yet his
eyes and attitude expressed the utmost sadness and despondency. The
old man returned to the cottage, and the youth, with tools different
from those he had used in the morning, directed his steps across the
fields. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Night quickly shut in, but to my extreme wonder, I found that the
cottagers had a means of prolonging light by the use of tapers, and was
delighted to find that the setting of the sun did not put an end to the
pleasure I experienced in watching my human neighbours. In the evening
the young girl and her companion were employed in various occupations
which I did not understand; and the old man again took up the
instrument which produced the divine sounds that had enchanted me in
the morning. So soon as he had finished, the youth began, not to play,
but to utter sounds that were monotonous, and neither resembling the
harmony of the old man’s instrument nor the songs of the birds; I since
found that he read aloud, but at that time I knew nothing of the
science of words or letters. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The family, after having been thus occupied for a short time,
extinguished their lights and retired, as I conjectured, to rest.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I lay on my straw, but I could not sleep. I thought of the
occurrences of the day. What chiefly struck me was the gentle manners
of these people, and I longed to join them, but dared not. I
remembered too well the treatment I had suffered the night before from
the barbarous villagers, and resolved, whatever course of conduct I
might hereafter think it right to pursue, that for the present I would
remain quietly in my hovel, watching and endeavouring to discover the
motives which influenced their actions. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The cottagers arose the next morning before the sun. The young woman
arranged the cottage and prepared the food, and the youth departed
after the first meal. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This day was passed in the same routine as that which preceded it.
The young man was constantly employed out of doors, and the girl in
various laborious occupations within. The old man, whom I soon
perceived to be blind, employed his leisure hours on his instrument or
in contemplation. Nothing could exceed the love and respect which the
younger cottagers exhibited towards their venerable companion. They
performed towards him every little office of affection and duty with
gentleness, and he rewarded them by his benevolent smiles. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “They were not entirely happy. The young man and his companion often
went apart and appeared to weep. I saw no cause for their unhappiness,
but I was deeply affected by it. If such lovely creatures were
miserable, it was less strange that I, an imperfect and solitary being,
should be wretched. Yet why were these gentle beings unhappy? They
possessed a delightful house (for such it was in my eyes) and every
luxury; they had a fire to warm them when chill and delicious viands
when hungry; they were dressed in excellent clothes; and, still more,
they enjoyed one another’s company and speech, interchanging each day
looks of affection and kindness. What did their tears imply? Did they
really express pain? I was at first unable to solve these questions,
but perpetual attention and time explained to me many appearances which
were at first enigmatic. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “A considerable period elapsed before I discovered one of the causes of
the uneasiness of this amiable family: it was poverty, and they
suffered that evil in a very distressing degree. Their nourishment
consisted entirely of the vegetables of their garden and the milk of
one cow, which gave very little during the winter, when its masters
could scarcely procure food to support it. They often, I believe,
suffered the pangs of hunger very poignantly, especially the two
younger cottagers, for several times they placed food before the old
man when they reserved none for themselves. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This trait of kindness moved me sensibly. I had been accustomed,
during the night, to steal a part of their store for my own
consumption, but when I found that in doing this I inflicted pain on
the cottagers, I abstained and satisfied myself with berries, nuts, and
roots which I gathered from a neighbouring wood. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I discovered also another means through which I was enabled to assist
their labours. I found that the youth spent a great part of each day
in collecting wood for the family fire, and during the night I often
took his tools, the use of which I quickly discovered, and brought home
firing sufficient for the consumption of several days. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I remember, the first time that I did this, the young woman, when she
opened the door in the morning, appeared greatly astonished on seeing a great
pile of wood on the outside. She uttered some words in a loud voice, and the
youth joined her, who also expressed surprise. I observed, with pleasure,
that he did not go to the forest that day, but spent it in repairing the
cottage and cultivating the garden. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “By degrees I made a discovery of still greater moment. I found that
these people possessed a method of communicating their experience and
feelings to one another by articulate sounds. I perceived that the words
they spoke sometimes produced pleasure or pain, smiles or sadness, in the
minds and countenances of the hearers. This was indeed a godlike science,
and I ardently desired to become acquainted with it. But I was baffled in
every attempt I made for this purpose. Their pronunciation was quick, and
the words they uttered, not having any apparent connection with visible
objects, I was unable to discover any clue by which I could unravel the
mystery of their reference. By great application, however, and after having
remained during the space of several revolutions of the moon in my hovel, I
discovered the names that were given to some of the most familiar objects of
discourse; I learned and applied the words, _fire, milk, bread,_ and
_wood._ I learned also the names of the cottagers themselves. The youth
and his companion had each of them several names, but the old man had only
one, which was _father._ The girl was called _sister_ or
_Agatha,_ and the youth _Felix, brother,_ or _son_. I cannot
describe the delight I felt when I learned the ideas appropriated to each of
these sounds and was able to pronounce them. I distinguished several other
words without being able as yet to understand or apply them, such as _good,
dearest, unhappy._ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I spent the winter in this manner. The gentle manners and beauty of
the cottagers greatly endeared them to me; when they were unhappy, I
felt depressed; when they rejoiced, I sympathised in their joys. I saw
few human beings besides them, and if any other happened to enter the
cottage, their harsh manners and rude gait only enhanced to me the
superior accomplishments of my friends. The old man, I could perceive,
often endeavoured to encourage his children, as sometimes I found that
he called them, to cast off their melancholy. He would talk in a
cheerful accent, with an expression of goodness that bestowed pleasure
even upon me. Agatha listened with respect, her eyes sometimes filled
with tears, which she endeavoured to wipe away unperceived; but I
generally found that her countenance and tone were more cheerful after
having listened to the exhortations of her father. It was not thus
with Felix. He was always the saddest of the group, and even to my
unpractised senses, he appeared to have suffered more deeply than his
friends. But if his countenance was more sorrowful, his voice was more
cheerful than that of his sister, especially when he addressed the old
man. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I could mention innumerable instances which, although slight, marked
the dispositions of these amiable cottagers. In the midst of poverty
and want, Felix carried with pleasure to his sister the first little
white flower that peeped out from beneath the snowy ground. Early in
the morning, before she had risen, he cleared away the snow that
obstructed her path to the milk-house, drew water from the well, and
brought the wood from the outhouse, where, to his perpetual
astonishment, he found his store always replenished by an invisible
hand. In the day, I believe, he worked sometimes for a neighbouring
farmer, because he often went forth and did not return until dinner,
yet brought no wood with him. At other times he worked in the garden,
but as there was little to do in the frosty season, he read to the old
man and Agatha. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This reading had puzzled me extremely at first, but by degrees I
discovered that he uttered many of the same sounds when he read as when
he talked. I conjectured, therefore, that he found on the paper signs
for speech which he understood, and I ardently longed to comprehend
these also; but how was that possible when I did not even understand
the sounds for which they stood as signs? I improved, however,
sensibly in this science, but not sufficiently to follow up any kind of
conversation, although I applied my whole mind to the endeavour, for I
easily perceived that, although I eagerly longed to discover myself to
the cottagers, I ought not to make the attempt until I had first become
master of their language, which knowledge might enable me to make them
overlook the deformity of my figure, for with this also the contrast
perpetually presented to my eyes had made me acquainted. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I had admired the perfect forms of my cottagers—their grace, beauty,
and delicate complexions; but how was I terrified when I viewed myself
in a transparent pool! At first I started back, unable to believe that
it was indeed I who was reflected in the mirror; and when I became
fully convinced that I was in reality the monster that I am, I was
filled with the bitterest sensations of despondence and mortification.
Alas! I did not yet entirely know the fatal effects of this miserable
deformity. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “As the sun became warmer and the light of day longer, the snow
vanished, and I beheld the bare trees and the black earth. From this
time Felix was more employed, and the heart-moving indications of
impending famine disappeared. Their food, as I afterwards found, was
coarse, but it was wholesome; and they procured a sufficiency of it.
Several new kinds of plants sprang up in the garden, which they
dressed; and these signs of comfort increased daily as the season
advanced. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The old man, leaning on his son, walked each day at noon, when it did
not rain, as I found it was called when the heavens poured forth its
waters. This frequently took place, but a high wind quickly dried the
earth, and the season became far more pleasant than it had been. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My mode of life in my hovel was uniform. During the morning I
attended the motions of the cottagers, and when they were dispersed in
various occupations, I slept; the remainder of the day was spent in
observing my friends. When they had retired to rest, if there was any
moon or the night was star-light, I went into the woods and collected
my own food and fuel for the cottage. When I returned, as often as it
was necessary, I cleared their path from the snow and performed those
offices that I had seen done by Felix. I afterwards found that these
labours, performed by an invisible hand, greatly astonished them; and
once or twice I heard them, on these occasions, utter the words _good
spirit, wonderful_; but I did not then understand the signification
of these terms. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My thoughts now became more active, and I longed to discover the
motives and feelings of these lovely creatures; I was inquisitive to
know why Felix appeared so miserable and Agatha so sad. I thought
(foolish wretch!) that it might be in my power to restore happiness to
these deserving people. When I slept or was absent, the forms of the
venerable blind father, the gentle Agatha, and the excellent Felix
flitted before me. I looked upon them as superior beings who would be
the arbiters of my future destiny. I formed in my imagination a
thousand pictures of presenting myself to them, and their reception of
me. I imagined that they would be disgusted, until, by my gentle
demeanour and conciliating words, I should first win their favour and
afterwards their love. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “These thoughts exhilarated me and led me to apply with fresh ardour to
the acquiring the art of language. My organs were indeed harsh, but
supple; and although my voice was very unlike the soft music of their
tones, yet I pronounced such words as I understood with tolerable ease.
It was as the ass and the lap-dog; yet surely the gentle ass whose
intentions were affectionate, although his manners were rude, deserved
better treatment than blows and execration. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The pleasant showers and genial warmth of spring greatly altered the
aspect of the earth. Men who before this change seemed to have been
hid in caves dispersed themselves and were employed in various arts of
cultivation. The birds sang in more cheerful notes, and the leaves
began to bud forth on the trees. Happy, happy earth! Fit habitation
for gods, which, so short a time before, was bleak, damp, and
unwholesome. My spirits were elevated by the enchanting appearance of
nature; the past was blotted from my memory, the present was tranquil,
and the future gilded by bright rays of hope and anticipations of joy.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I now hasten to the more moving part of my story. I shall relate
events that impressed me with feelings which, from what I had been,
have made me what I am. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Spring advanced rapidly; the weather became fine and the skies
cloudless. It surprised me that what before was desert and gloomy
should now bloom with the most beautiful flowers and verdure. My
senses were gratified and refreshed by a thousand scents of delight and
a thousand sights of beauty. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It was on one of these days, when my cottagers periodically rested
from labour—the old man played on his guitar, and the children
listened to him—that I observed the countenance of Felix was
melancholy beyond expression; he sighed frequently, and once his father
paused in his music, and I conjectured by his manner that he inquired
the cause of his son’s sorrow. Felix replied in a cheerful accent, and
the old man was recommencing his music when someone tapped at the door. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It was a lady on horseback, accompanied by a country-man as a guide.
The lady was dressed in a dark suit and covered with a thick black
veil. Agatha asked a question, to which the stranger only replied by
pronouncing, in a sweet accent, the name of Felix. Her voice was
musical but unlike that of either of my friends. On hearing this word,
Felix came up hastily to the lady, who, when she saw him, threw up her
veil, and I beheld a countenance of angelic beauty and expression. Her
hair of a shining raven black, and curiously braided; her eyes were
dark, but gentle, although animated; her features of a regular
proportion, and her complexion wondrously fair, each cheek tinged with
a lovely pink. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Felix seemed ravished with delight when he saw her, every trait of
sorrow vanished from his face, and it instantly expressed a degree of
ecstatic joy, of which I could hardly have believed it capable; his
eyes sparkled, as his cheek flushed with pleasure; and at that moment I
thought him as beautiful as the stranger. She appeared affected by
different feelings; wiping a few tears from her lovely eyes, she held
out her hand to Felix, who kissed it rapturously and called her, as
well as I could distinguish, his sweet Arabian. She did not appear to
understand him, but smiled. He assisted her to dismount, and
dismissing her guide, conducted her into the cottage. Some
conversation took place between him and his father, and the young
stranger knelt at the old man’s feet and would have kissed his hand,
but he raised her and embraced her affectionately. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I soon perceived that although the stranger uttered articulate sounds
and appeared to have a language of her own, she was neither understood
by nor herself understood the cottagers. They made many signs which I
did not comprehend, but I saw that her presence diffused gladness
through the cottage, dispelling their sorrow as the sun dissipates the
morning mists. Felix seemed peculiarly happy and with smiles of
delight welcomed his Arabian. Agatha, the ever-gentle Agatha, kissed
the hands of the lovely stranger, and pointing to her brother, made
signs which appeared to me to mean that he had been sorrowful until she
came. Some hours passed thus, while they, by their countenances,
expressed joy, the cause of which I did not comprehend. Presently I
found, by the frequent recurrence of some sound which the stranger
repeated after them, that she was endeavouring to learn their language;
and the idea instantly occurred to me that I should make use of the
same instructions to the same end. The stranger learned about twenty
words at the first lesson; most of them, indeed, were those which I had
before understood, but I profited by the others. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “As night came on, Agatha and the Arabian retired early. When they
separated Felix kissed the hand of the stranger and said, ‘Good night
sweet Safie.’ He sat up much longer, conversing with his father, and
by the frequent repetition of her name I conjectured that their lovely
guest was the subject of their conversation. I ardently desired to
understand them, and bent every faculty towards that purpose, but found
it utterly impossible. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The next morning Felix went out to his work, and after the usual
occupations of Agatha were finished, the Arabian sat at the feet of the
old man, and taking his guitar, played some airs so entrancingly
beautiful that they at once drew tears of sorrow and delight from my
eyes. She sang, and her voice flowed in a rich cadence, swelling or
dying away like a nightingale of the woods. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “When she had finished, she gave the guitar to Agatha, who at first
declined it. She played a simple air, and her voice accompanied it in
sweet accents, but unlike the wondrous strain of the stranger. The old
man appeared enraptured and said some words which Agatha endeavoured to
explain to Safie, and by which he appeared to wish to express that she
bestowed on him the greatest delight by her music. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The days now passed as peaceably as before, with the sole alteration
that joy had taken place of sadness in the countenances of my friends.
Safie was always gay and happy; she and I improved rapidly in the
knowledge of language, so that in two months I began to comprehend most
of the words uttered by my protectors. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “In the meanwhile also the black ground was covered with herbage, and
the green banks interspersed with innumerable flowers, sweet to the
scent and the eyes, stars of pale radiance among the moonlight woods;
the sun became warmer, the nights clear and balmy; and my nocturnal
rambles were an extreme pleasure to me, although they were considerably
shortened by the late setting and early rising of the sun, for I never
ventured abroad during daylight, fearful of meeting with the same
treatment I had formerly endured in the first village which I entered. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My days were spent in close attention, that I might more speedily
master the language; and I may boast that I improved more rapidly than
the Arabian, who understood very little and conversed in broken
accents, whilst I comprehended and could imitate almost every word that
was spoken. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “While I improved in speech, I also learned the science of letters as
it was taught to the stranger, and this opened before me a wide field
for wonder and delight. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The book from which Felix instructed Safie was Volney’s _Ruins
of Empires_. I should not have understood the purport of this book had not
Felix, in reading it, given very minute explanations. He had chosen this
work, he said, because the declamatory style was framed in imitation of the
Eastern authors. Through this work I obtained a cursory knowledge of history
and a view of the several empires at present existing in the world; it gave
me an insight into the manners, governments, and religions of the different
nations of the earth. I heard of the slothful Asiatics, of the stupendous
genius and mental activity of the Grecians, of the wars and wonderful virtue
of the early Romans—of their subsequent degenerating—of the
decline of that mighty empire, of chivalry, Christianity, and kings. I heard
of the discovery of the American hemisphere and wept with Safie over the
hapless fate of its original inhabitants. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “These wonderful narrations inspired me with strange feelings. Was
man, indeed, at once so powerful, so virtuous and magnificent, yet so
vicious and base? He appeared at one time a mere scion of the evil
principle and at another as all that can be conceived of noble and
godlike. To be a great and virtuous man appeared the highest honour
that can befall a sensitive being; to be base and vicious, as many on
record have been, appeared the lowest degradation, a condition more
abject than that of the blind mole or harmless worm. For a long time I
could not conceive how one man could go forth to murder his fellow, or
even why there were laws and governments; but when I heard details of
vice and bloodshed, my wonder ceased and I turned away with disgust and
loathing. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Every conversation of the cottagers now opened new wonders to me.
While I listened to the instructions which Felix bestowed upon the
Arabian, the strange system of human society was explained to me. I
heard of the division of property, of immense wealth and squalid
poverty, of rank, descent, and noble blood. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The words induced me to turn towards myself. I learned that the
possessions most esteemed by your fellow creatures were high and
unsullied descent united with riches. A man might be respected with
only one of these advantages, but without either he was considered,
except in very rare instances, as a vagabond and a slave, doomed to
waste his powers for the profits of the chosen few! And what was I? Of
my creation and creator I was absolutely ignorant, but I knew that I
possessed no money, no friends, no kind of property. I was, besides,
endued with a figure hideously deformed and loathsome; I was not even
of the same nature as man. I was more agile than they and could
subsist upon coarser diet; I bore the extremes of heat and cold with
less injury to my frame; my stature far exceeded theirs. When I looked
around I saw and heard of none like me. Was I, then, a monster, a blot
upon the earth, from which all men fled and whom all men disowned? </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I cannot describe to you the agony that these reflections inflicted
upon me; I tried to dispel them, but sorrow only increased with
knowledge. Oh, that I had for ever remained in my native wood, nor
known nor felt beyond the sensations of hunger, thirst, and heat! </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Of what a strange nature is knowledge! It clings to the mind when it
has once seized on it like a lichen on the rock. I wished sometimes to
shake off all thought and feeling, but I learned that there was but one
means to overcome the sensation of pain, and that was death—a state
which I feared yet did not understand. I admired virtue and good
feelings and loved the gentle manners and amiable qualities of my
cottagers, but I was shut out from intercourse with them, except
through means which I obtained by stealth, when I was unseen and
unknown, and which rather increased than satisfied the desire I had of
becoming one among my fellows. The gentle words of Agatha and the
animated smiles of the charming Arabian were not for me. The mild
exhortations of the old man and the lively conversation of the loved
Felix were not for me. Miserable, unhappy wretch! </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Other lessons were impressed upon me even more deeply. I heard of the
difference of sexes, and the birth and growth of children, how the
father doted on the smiles of the infant, and the lively sallies of the
older child, how all the life and cares of the mother were wrapped up
in the precious charge, how the mind of youth expanded and gained
knowledge, of brother, sister, and all the various relationships which
bind one human being to another in mutual bonds. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But where were my friends and relations? No father had watched my
infant days, no mother had blessed me with smiles and caresses; or if
they had, all my past life was now a blot, a blind vacancy in which I
distinguished nothing. From my earliest remembrance I had been as I
then was in height and proportion. I had never yet seen a being
resembling me or who claimed any intercourse with me. What was I? The
question again recurred, to be answered only with groans. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I will soon explain to what these feelings tended, but allow me now to
return to the cottagers, whose story excited in me such various
feelings of indignation, delight, and wonder, but which all terminated
in additional love and reverence for my protectors (for so I loved, in
an innocent, half-painful self-deceit, to call them).” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Some time elapsed before I learned the history of my friends. It was
one which could not fail to impress itself deeply on my mind, unfolding
as it did a number of circumstances, each interesting and wonderful to
one so utterly inexperienced as I was. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The name of the old man was De Lacey. He was descended from a good
family in France, where he had lived for many years in affluence,
respected by his superiors and beloved by his equals. His son was bred
in the service of his country, and Agatha had ranked with ladies of the
highest distinction. A few months before my arrival they had lived in
a large and luxurious city called Paris, surrounded by friends and
possessed of every enjoyment which virtue, refinement of intellect, or
taste, accompanied by a moderate fortune, could afford. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The father of Safie had been the cause of their ruin. He was a
Turkish merchant and had inhabited Paris for many years, when, for some
reason which I could not learn, he became obnoxious to the government.
He was seized and cast into prison the very day that Safie arrived from
Constantinople to join him. He was tried and condemned to death. The
injustice of his sentence was very flagrant; all Paris was indignant;
and it was judged that his religion and wealth rather than the crime
alleged against him had been the cause of his condemnation. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Felix had accidentally been present at the trial; his horror and
indignation were uncontrollable when he heard the decision of the
court. He made, at that moment, a solemn vow to deliver him and then
looked around for the means. After many fruitless attempts to gain
admittance to the prison, he found a strongly grated window in an
unguarded part of the building, which lighted the dungeon of the
unfortunate Muhammadan, who, loaded with chains, waited in despair the
execution of the barbarous sentence. Felix visited the grate at night
and made known to the prisoner his intentions in his favour. The Turk,
amazed and delighted, endeavoured to kindle the zeal of his deliverer
by promises of reward and wealth. Felix rejected his offers with
contempt, yet when he saw the lovely Safie, who was allowed to visit
her father and who by her gestures expressed her lively gratitude, the
youth could not help owning to his own mind that the captive possessed
a treasure which would fully reward his toil and hazard. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The Turk quickly perceived the impression that his daughter had made
on the heart of Felix and endeavoured to secure him more entirely in
his interests by the promise of her hand in marriage so soon as he
should be conveyed to a place of safety. Felix was too delicate to
accept this offer, yet he looked forward to the probability of the
event as to the consummation of his happiness. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “During the ensuing days, while the preparations were going forward for
the escape of the merchant, the zeal of Felix was warmed by several
letters that he received from this lovely girl, who found means to
express her thoughts in the language of her lover by the aid of an old
man, a servant of her father who understood French. She thanked him in
the most ardent terms for his intended services towards her parent, and
at the same time she gently deplored her own fate. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have copies of these letters, for I found means, during my residence
in the hovel, to procure the implements of writing; and the letters
were often in the hands of Felix or Agatha. Before I depart I will
give them to you; they will prove the truth of my tale; but at present,
as the sun is already far declined, I shall only have time to repeat
the substance of them to you. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Safie related that her mother was a Christian Arab, seized and made a
slave by the Turks; recommended by her beauty, she had won the heart of
the father of Safie, who married her. The young girl spoke in high and
enthusiastic terms of her mother, who, born in freedom, spurned the
bondage to which she was now reduced. She instructed her daughter in
the tenets of her religion and taught her to aspire to higher powers of
intellect and an independence of spirit forbidden to the female
followers of Muhammad. This lady died, but her lessons were indelibly
impressed on the mind of Safie, who sickened at the prospect of again
returning to Asia and being immured within the walls of a harem,
allowed only to occupy herself with infantile amusements, ill-suited to
the temper of her soul, now accustomed to grand ideas and a noble
emulation for virtue. The prospect of marrying a Christian and
remaining in a country where women were allowed to take a rank in
society was enchanting to her. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The day for the execution of the Turk was fixed, but on the night
previous to it he quitted his prison and before morning was distant
many leagues from Paris. Felix had procured passports in the name of
his father, sister, and himself. He had previously communicated his
plan to the former, who aided the deceit by quitting his house, under
the pretence of a journey and concealed himself, with his daughter, in
an obscure part of Paris. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Felix conducted the fugitives through France to Lyons and across Mont
Cenis to Leghorn, where the merchant had decided to wait a favourable
opportunity of passing into some part of the Turkish dominions. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Safie resolved to remain with her father until the moment of his
departure, before which time the Turk renewed his promise that she
should be united to his deliverer; and Felix remained with them in
expectation of that event; and in the meantime he enjoyed the society
of the Arabian, who exhibited towards him the simplest and tenderest
affection. They conversed with one another through the means of an
interpreter, and sometimes with the interpretation of looks; and Safie
sang to him the divine airs of her native country. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The Turk allowed this intimacy to take place and encouraged the hopes
of the youthful lovers, while in his heart he had formed far other
plans. He loathed the idea that his daughter should be united to a
Christian, but he feared the resentment of Felix if he should appear
lukewarm, for he knew that he was still in the power of his deliverer
if he should choose to betray him to the Italian state which they
inhabited. He revolved a thousand plans by which he should be enabled
to prolong the deceit until it might be no longer necessary, and
secretly to take his daughter with him when he departed. His plans
were facilitated by the news which arrived from Paris. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The government of France were greatly enraged at the escape of their
victim and spared no pains to detect and punish his deliverer. The
plot of Felix was quickly discovered, and De Lacey and Agatha were
thrown into prison. The news reached Felix and roused him from his
dream of pleasure. His blind and aged father and his gentle sister lay
in a noisome dungeon while he enjoyed the free air and the society of
her whom he loved. This idea was torture to him. He quickly arranged
with the Turk that if the latter should find a favourable opportunity
for escape before Felix could return to Italy, Safie should remain as a
boarder at a convent at Leghorn; and then, quitting the lovely Arabian,
he hastened to Paris and delivered himself up to the vengeance of the
law, hoping to free De Lacey and Agatha by this proceeding. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He did not succeed. They remained confined for five months before the
trial took place, the result of which deprived them of their fortune
and condemned them to a perpetual exile from their native country. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “They found a miserable asylum in the cottage in Germany, where I
discovered them. Felix soon learned that the treacherous Turk, for
whom he and his family endured such unheard-of oppression, on
discovering that his deliverer was thus reduced to poverty and ruin,
became a traitor to good feeling and honour and had quitted Italy with
his daughter, insultingly sending Felix a pittance of money to aid him,
as he said, in some plan of future maintenance. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Such were the events that preyed on the heart of Felix and rendered
him, when I first saw him, the most miserable of his family. He could
have endured poverty, and while this distress had been the meed of his
virtue, he gloried in it; but the ingratitude of the Turk and the loss
of his beloved Safie were misfortunes more bitter and irreparable. The
arrival of the Arabian now infused new life into his soul. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “When the news reached Leghorn that Felix was deprived of his wealth
and rank, the merchant commanded his daughter to think no more of her
lover, but to prepare to return to her native country. The generous
nature of Safie was outraged by this command; she attempted to
expostulate with her father, but he left her angrily, reiterating his
tyrannical mandate. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “A few days after, the Turk entered his daughter’s apartment and told
her hastily that he had reason to believe that his residence at Leghorn
had been divulged and that he should speedily be delivered up to the
French government; he had consequently hired a vessel to convey him to
Constantinople, for which city he should sail in a few hours. He
intended to leave his daughter under the care of a confidential
servant, to follow at her leisure with the greater part of his
property, which had not yet arrived at Leghorn. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “When alone, Safie resolved in her own mind the plan of conduct that it
would become her to pursue in this emergency. A residence in Turkey
was abhorrent to her; her religion and her feelings were alike averse
to it. By some papers of her father which fell into her hands she
heard of the exile of her lover and learnt the name of the spot where
he then resided. She hesitated some time, but at length she formed her
determination. Taking with her some jewels that belonged to her and a
sum of money, she quitted Italy with an attendant, a native of Leghorn,
but who understood the common language of Turkey, and departed for
Germany. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “She arrived in safety at a town about twenty leagues from the cottage
of De Lacey, when her attendant fell dangerously ill. Safie nursed her
with the most devoted affection, but the poor girl died, and the
Arabian was left alone, unacquainted with the language of the country
and utterly ignorant of the customs of the world. She fell, however,
into good hands. The Italian had mentioned the name of the spot for
which they were bound, and after her death the woman of the house in
which they had lived took care that Safie should arrive in safety at
the cottage of her lover.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Such was the history of my beloved cottagers. It impressed me deeply.
I learned, from the views of social life which it developed, to admire
their virtues and to deprecate the vices of mankind. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “As yet I looked upon crime as a distant evil, benevolence and
generosity were ever present before me, inciting within me a desire to
become an actor in the busy scene where so many admirable qualities
were called forth and displayed. But in giving an account of the
progress of my intellect, I must not omit a circumstance which occurred
in the beginning of the month of August of the same year. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “One night during my accustomed visit to the neighbouring wood where I
collected my own food and brought home firing for my protectors, I found on
the ground a leathern portmanteau containing several articles of dress and
some books. I eagerly seized the prize and returned with it to my hovel. 
Fortunately the books were written in the language, the elements of which I
had acquired at the cottage; they consisted of _Paradise Lost_, a volume
of _Plutarch’s Lives_, and the _Sorrows of Werter_. The
possession of these treasures gave me extreme delight; I now continually
studied and exercised my mind upon these histories, whilst my friends were
employed in their ordinary occupations. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I can hardly describe to you the effect of these books. They produced
in me an infinity of new images and feelings, that sometimes raised me
to ecstasy, but more frequently sunk me into the lowest dejection. In
the _Sorrows of Werter_, besides the interest of its simple and affecting
story, so many opinions are canvassed and so many lights thrown upon
what had hitherto been to me obscure subjects that I found in it a
never-ending source of speculation and astonishment. The gentle and
domestic manners it described, combined with lofty sentiments and
feelings, which had for their object something out of self, accorded
well with my experience among my protectors and with the wants which
were for ever alive in my own bosom. But I thought Werter himself a
more divine being than I had ever beheld or imagined; his character
contained no pretension, but it sank deep. The disquisitions upon
death and suicide were calculated to fill me with wonder. I did not
pretend to enter into the merits of the case, yet I inclined towards
the opinions of the hero, whose extinction I wept, without precisely
understanding it. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “As I read, however, I applied much personally to my own feelings and
condition. I found myself similar yet at the same time strangely
unlike to the beings concerning whom I read and to whose conversation I
was a listener. I sympathised with and partly understood them, but I
was unformed in mind; I was dependent on none and related to none.
‘The path of my departure was free,’ and there was none to lament my
annihilation. My person was hideous and my stature gigantic. What did
this mean? Who was I? What was I? Whence did I come? What was my
destination? These questions continually recurred, but I was unable to
solve them. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The volume of _Plutarch’s Lives_ which I possessed contained the
histories of the first founders of the ancient republics. This book
had a far different effect upon me from the _Sorrows of Werter_. I
learned from Werter’s imaginations despondency and gloom, but Plutarch
taught me high thoughts; he elevated me above the wretched sphere of my
own reflections, to admire and love the heroes of past ages. Many
things I read surpassed my understanding and experience. I had a very
confused knowledge of kingdoms, wide extents of country, mighty rivers,
and boundless seas. But I was perfectly unacquainted with towns and
large assemblages of men. The cottage of my protectors had been the
only school in which I had studied human nature, but this book
developed new and mightier scenes of action. I read of men concerned
in public affairs, governing or massacring their species. I felt the
greatest ardour for virtue rise within me, and abhorrence for vice, as
far as I understood the signification of those terms, relative as they
were, as I applied them, to pleasure and pain alone. Induced by these
feelings, I was of course led to admire peaceable lawgivers, Numa,
Solon, and Lycurgus, in preference to Romulus and Theseus. The
patriarchal lives of my protectors caused these impressions to take a
firm hold on my mind; perhaps, if my first introduction to humanity had
been made by a young soldier, burning for glory and slaughter, I should
have been imbued with different sensations. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But _Paradise Lost_ excited different and far deeper emotions. I read
it, as I had read the other volumes which had fallen into my hands, as
a true history. It moved every feeling of wonder and awe that the
picture of an omnipotent God warring with his creatures was capable of
exciting. I often referred the several situations, as their similarity
struck me, to my own. Like Adam, I was apparently united by no link to
any other being in existence; but his state was far different from mine
in every other respect. He had come forth from the hands of God a
perfect creature, happy and prosperous, guarded by the especial care of
his Creator; he was allowed to converse with and acquire knowledge from
beings of a superior nature, but I was wretched, helpless, and alone.
Many times I considered Satan as the fitter emblem of my condition, for
often, like him, when I viewed the bliss of my protectors, the bitter
gall of envy rose within me. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Another circumstance strengthened and confirmed these feelings. Soon
after my arrival in the hovel I discovered some papers in the pocket of
the dress which I had taken from your laboratory. At first I had
neglected them, but now that I was able to decipher the characters in
which they were written, I began to study them with diligence. It was
your journal of the four months that preceded my creation. You
minutely described in these papers every step you took in the progress
of your work; this history was mingled with accounts of domestic
occurrences. You doubtless recollect these papers. Here they are.
Everything is related in them which bears reference to my accursed
origin; the whole detail of that series of disgusting circumstances
which produced it is set in view; the minutest description of my odious
and loathsome person is given, in language which painted your own
horrors and rendered mine indelible. I sickened as I read. ‘Hateful
day when I received life!’ I exclaimed in agony. ‘Accursed creator!
Why did you form a monster so hideous that even _you_ turned from me in
disgust? God, in pity, made man beautiful and alluring, after his own
image; but my form is a filthy type of yours, more horrid even from the
very resemblance. Satan had his companions, fellow devils, to admire
and encourage him, but I am solitary and abhorred.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “These were the reflections of my hours of despondency and solitude;
but when I contemplated the virtues of the cottagers, their amiable and
benevolent dispositions, I persuaded myself that when they should
become acquainted with my admiration of their virtues they would
compassionate me and overlook my personal deformity. Could they turn
from their door one, however monstrous, who solicited their compassion
and friendship? I resolved, at least, not to despair, but in every way
to fit myself for an interview with them which would decide my fate. I
postponed this attempt for some months longer, for the importance
attached to its success inspired me with a dread lest I should fail.
Besides, I found that my understanding improved so much with every
day’s experience that I was unwilling to commence this undertaking
until a few more months should have added to my sagacity. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Several changes, in the meantime, took place in the cottage. The
presence of Safie diffused happiness among its inhabitants, and I also
found that a greater degree of plenty reigned there. Felix and Agatha
spent more time in amusement and conversation, and were assisted in
their labours by servants. They did not appear rich, but they were
contented and happy; their feelings were serene and peaceful, while
mine became every day more tumultuous. Increase of knowledge only
discovered to me more clearly what a wretched outcast I was. I
cherished hope, it is true, but it vanished when I beheld my person
reflected in water or my shadow in the moonshine, even as that frail
image and that inconstant shade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I endeavoured to crush these fears and to fortify myself for the trial
which in a few months I resolved to undergo; and sometimes I allowed my
thoughts, unchecked by reason, to ramble in the fields of Paradise, and
dared to fancy amiable and lovely creatures sympathising with my
feelings and cheering my gloom; their angelic countenances breathed
smiles of consolation. But it was all a dream; no Eve soothed my
sorrows nor shared my thoughts; I was alone. I remembered Adam’s
supplication to his Creator. But where was mine? He had abandoned me,
and in the bitterness of my heart I cursed him. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Autumn passed thus. I saw, with surprise and grief, the leaves decay
and fall, and nature again assume the barren and bleak appearance it
had worn when I first beheld the woods and the lovely moon. Yet I did
not heed the bleakness of the weather; I was better fitted by my
conformation for the endurance of cold than heat. But my chief
delights were the sight of the flowers, the birds, and all the gay
apparel of summer; when those deserted me, I turned with more attention
towards the cottagers. Their happiness was not decreased by the
absence of summer. They loved and sympathised with one another; and
their joys, depending on each other, were not interrupted by the
casualties that took place around them. The more I saw of them, the
greater became my desire to claim their protection and kindness; my
heart yearned to be known and loved by these amiable creatures; to see
their sweet looks directed towards me with affection was the utmost
limit of my ambition. I dared not think that they would turn them from
me with disdain and horror. The poor that stopped at their door were
never driven away. I asked, it is true, for greater treasures than a
little food or rest: I required kindness and sympathy; but I did not
believe myself utterly unworthy of it. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The winter advanced, and an entire revolution of the seasons had taken
place since I awoke into life. My attention at this time was solely
directed towards my plan of introducing myself into the cottage of my
protectors. I revolved many projects, but that on which I finally
fixed was to enter the dwelling when the blind old man should be alone.
I had sagacity enough to discover that the unnatural hideousness of my
person was the chief object of horror with those who had formerly
beheld me. My voice, although harsh, had nothing terrible in it; I
thought, therefore, that if in the absence of his children I could gain
the good will and mediation of the old De Lacey, I might by his means
be tolerated by my younger protectors. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “One day, when the sun shone on the red leaves that strewed the ground
and diffused cheerfulness, although it denied warmth, Safie, Agatha,
and Felix departed on a long country walk, and the old man, at his own
desire, was left alone in the cottage. When his children had departed,
he took up his guitar and played several mournful but sweet airs, more
sweet and mournful than I had ever heard him play before. At first his
countenance was illuminated with pleasure, but as he continued,
thoughtfulness and sadness succeeded; at length, laying aside the
instrument, he sat absorbed in reflection. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My heart beat quick; this was the hour and moment of trial, which
would decide my hopes or realise my fears. The servants were gone to a
neighbouring fair. All was silent in and around the cottage; it was an
excellent opportunity; yet, when I proceeded to execute my plan, my
limbs failed me and I sank to the ground. Again I rose, and exerting
all the firmness of which I was master, removed the planks which I had
placed before my hovel to conceal my retreat. The fresh air revived
me, and with renewed determination I approached the door of their
cottage. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I entered. ‘Pardon this intrusion,’ said I; ‘I am
a traveller in want of a little rest; you would greatly oblige me if you
would allow me to remain a few minutes before the fire.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Enter,’ said De Lacey, ‘and I will try in what
manner I can to relieve your wants; but, unfortunately, my children are
from home, and as I am blind, I am afraid I shall find it difficult to
procure food for you.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I sat down, and a silence ensued. I knew that every minute was
precious to me, yet I remained irresolute in what manner to commence
the interview, when the old man addressed me. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘No; but I was educated by a French family and understand that
language only. I am now going to claim the protection of some friends,
whom I sincerely love, and of whose favour I have some hopes.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘No, they are French. But let us change the subject. I am an
unfortunate and deserted creature, I look around and I have no relation
or friend upon earth. These amiable people to whom I go have never
seen me and know little of me. I am full of fears, for if I fail
there, I am an outcast in the world for ever.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Do not despair. To be friendless is indeed to be unfortunate, but
the hearts of men, when unprejudiced by any obvious self-interest, are
full of brotherly love and charity. Rely, therefore, on your hopes;
and if these friends are good and amiable, do not despair.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘They are kind—they are the most excellent creatures in the world;
but, unfortunately, they are prejudiced against me. I have good
dispositions; my life has been hitherto harmless and in some degree
beneficial; but a fatal prejudice clouds their eyes, and where they
ought to see a feeling and kind friend, they behold only a detestable
monster.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘I am about to undertake that task; and it is on that account that I
feel so many overwhelming terrors. I tenderly love these friends; I
have, unknown to them, been for many months in the habits of daily
kindness towards them; but they believe that I wish to injure them, and
it is that prejudice which I wish to overcome.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The old man paused and then continued, ‘If you will unreservedly
confide to me the particulars of your tale, I perhaps may be of use in
undeceiving them. I am blind and cannot judge of your countenance, but
there is something in your words which persuades me that you are
sincere. I am poor and an exile, but it will afford me true pleasure
to be in any way serviceable to a human creature.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Excellent man! I thank you and accept your generous offer. You
raise me from the dust by this kindness; and I trust that, by your aid,
I shall not be driven from the society and sympathy of your fellow
creatures.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Heaven forbid! Even if you were really criminal, for that can only
drive you to desperation, and not instigate you to virtue. I also am
unfortunate; I and my family have been condemned, although innocent;
judge, therefore, if I do not feel for your misfortunes.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘How can I thank you, my best and only benefactor? From your lips
first have I heard the voice of kindness directed towards me; I shall
be for ever grateful; and your present humanity assures me of success
with those friends whom I am on the point of meeting.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I paused. This, I thought, was the moment of decision, which was to
rob me of or bestow happiness on me for ever. I struggled vainly for
firmness sufficient to answer him, but the effort destroyed all my
remaining strength; I sank on the chair and sobbed aloud. At that
moment I heard the steps of my younger protectors. I had not a moment
to lose, but seizing the hand of the old man, I cried, ‘Now is the
time! Save and protect me! You and your family are the friends whom I
seek. Do not you desert me in the hour of trial!’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “At that instant the cottage door was opened, and Felix, Safie, and
Agatha entered. Who can describe their horror and consternation on
beholding me? Agatha fainted, and Safie, unable to attend to her
friend, rushed out of the cottage. Felix darted forward, and with
supernatural force tore me from his father, to whose knees I clung, in
a transport of fury, he dashed me to the ground and struck me violently
with a stick. I could have torn him limb from limb, as the lion rends
the antelope. But my heart sank within me as with bitter sickness, and
I refrained. I saw him on the point of repeating his blow, when,
overcome by pain and anguish, I quitted the cottage, and in the general
tumult escaped unperceived to my hovel.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Cursed, cursed creator! Why did I live? Why, in that instant, did I
not extinguish the spark of existence which you had so wantonly
bestowed? I know not; despair had not yet taken possession of me; my
feelings were those of rage and revenge. I could with pleasure have
destroyed the cottage and its inhabitants and have glutted myself with
their shrieks and misery. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “When night came I quitted my retreat and wandered in the wood; and
now, no longer restrained by the fear of discovery, I gave vent to my
anguish in fearful howlings. I was like a wild beast that had broken
the toils, destroying the objects that obstructed me and ranging
through the wood with a stag-like swiftness. Oh! What a miserable
night I passed! The cold stars shone in mockery, and the bare trees
waved their branches above me; now and then the sweet voice of a bird
burst forth amidst the universal stillness. All, save I, were at rest
or in enjoyment; I, like the arch-fiend, bore a hell within me, and
finding myself unsympathised with, wished to tear up the trees, spread
havoc and destruction around me, and then to have sat down and enjoyed
the ruin. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But this was a luxury of sensation that could not endure; I became
fatigued with excess of bodily exertion and sank on the damp grass in
the sick impotence of despair. There was none among the myriads of men
that existed who would pity or assist me; and should I feel kindness
towards my enemies? No; from that moment I declared everlasting war
against the species, and more than all, against him who had formed me
and sent me forth to this insupportable misery. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The sun rose; I heard the voices of men and knew that it was
impossible to return to my retreat during that day. Accordingly I hid
myself in some thick underwood, determining to devote the ensuing hours
to reflection on my situation. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The pleasant sunshine and the pure air of day restored me to some
degree of tranquillity; and when I considered what had passed at the
cottage, I could not help believing that I had been too hasty in my
conclusions. I had certainly acted imprudently. It was apparent that
my conversation had interested the father in my behalf, and I was a
fool in having exposed my person to the horror of his children. I
ought to have familiarised the old De Lacey to me, and by degrees to
have discovered myself to the rest of his family, when they should have
been prepared for my approach. But I did not believe my errors to be
irretrievable, and after much consideration I resolved to return to the
cottage, seek the old man, and by my representations win him to my
party. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “These thoughts calmed me, and in the afternoon I sank into a profound
sleep; but the fever of my blood did not allow me to be visited by
peaceful dreams. The horrible scene of the preceding day was for ever
acting before my eyes; the females were flying and the enraged Felix
tearing me from his father’s feet. I awoke exhausted, and finding that
it was already night, I crept forth from my hiding-place, and went in
search of food. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “When my hunger was appeased, I directed my steps towards the
well-known path that conducted to the cottage. All there was at peace.
I crept into my hovel and remained in silent expectation of the
accustomed hour when the family arose. That hour passed, the sun
mounted high in the heavens, but the cottagers did not appear. I
trembled violently, apprehending some dreadful misfortune. The inside
of the cottage was dark, and I heard no motion; I cannot describe the
agony of this suspense. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Presently two countrymen passed by, but pausing near the cottage, they
entered into conversation, using violent gesticulations; but I did not
understand what they said, as they spoke the language of the country,
which differed from that of my protectors. Soon after, however, Felix
approached with another man; I was surprised, as I knew that he had not
quitted the cottage that morning, and waited anxiously to discover from
his discourse the meaning of these unusual appearances. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Do you consider,’ said his companion to him,
‘that you will be obliged to pay three months’ rent and to lose
the produce of your garden? I do not wish to take any unfair advantage, and
I beg therefore that you will take some days to consider of your
determination.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘It is utterly useless,’ replied Felix; ‘we can
never again inhabit your cottage. The life of my father is in the greatest
danger, owing to the dreadful circumstance that I have related. My wife and
my sister will never recover from their horror. I entreat you not to reason
with me any more. Take possession of your tenement and let me fly from this
place.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Felix trembled violently as he said this. He and his companion
entered the cottage, in which they remained for a few minutes, and then
departed. I never saw any of the family of De Lacey more. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I continued for the remainder of the day in my hovel in a state of
utter and stupid despair. My protectors had departed and had broken
the only link that held me to the world. For the first time the
feelings of revenge and hatred filled my bosom, and I did not strive to
control them, but allowing myself to be borne away by the stream, I
bent my mind towards injury and death. When I thought of my friends,
of the mild voice of De Lacey, the gentle eyes of Agatha, and the
exquisite beauty of the Arabian, these thoughts vanished and a gush of
tears somewhat soothed me. But again when I reflected that they had
spurned and deserted me, anger returned, a rage of anger, and unable to
injure anything human, I turned my fury towards inanimate objects. As
night advanced, I placed a variety of combustibles around the cottage,
and after having destroyed every vestige of cultivation in the garden,
I waited with forced impatience until the moon had sunk to commence my
operations. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “As the night advanced, a fierce wind arose from the woods and quickly
dispersed the clouds that had loitered in the heavens; the blast tore
along like a mighty avalanche and produced a kind of insanity in my
spirits that burst all bounds of reason and reflection. I lighted the
dry branch of a tree and danced with fury around the devoted cottage,
my eyes still fixed on the western horizon, the edge of which the moon
nearly touched. A part of its orb was at length hid, and I waved my
brand; it sank, and with a loud scream I fired the straw, and heath,
and bushes, which I had collected. The wind fanned the fire, and the
cottage was quickly enveloped by the flames, which clung to it and
licked it with their forked and destroying tongues. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “As soon as I was convinced that no assistance could save any part of
the habitation, I quitted the scene and sought for refuge in the woods. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And now, with the world before me, whither should I bend my steps? I
resolved to fly far from the scene of my misfortunes; but to me, hated
and despised, every country must be equally horrible. At length the
thought of you crossed my mind. I learned from your papers that you
were my father, my creator; and to whom could I apply with more fitness
than to him who had given me life? Among the lessons that Felix had
bestowed upon Safie, geography had not been omitted; I had learned from
these the relative situations of the different countries of the earth.
You had mentioned Geneva as the name of your native town, and towards
this place I resolved to proceed. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But how was I to direct myself? I knew that I must travel in a
southwesterly direction to reach my destination, but the sun was my
only guide. I did not know the names of the towns that I was to pass
through, nor could I ask information from a single human being; but I
did not despair. From you only could I hope for succour, although
towards you I felt no sentiment but that of hatred. Unfeeling,
heartless creator! You had endowed me with perceptions and passions
and then cast me abroad an object for the scorn and horror of mankind.
But on you only had I any claim for pity and redress, and from you I
determined to seek that justice which I vainly attempted to gain from
any other being that wore the human form. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My travels were long and the sufferings I endured intense. It was
late in autumn when I quitted the district where I had so long resided.
I travelled only at night, fearful of encountering the visage of a
human being. Nature decayed around me, and the sun became heatless;
rain and snow poured around me; mighty rivers were frozen; the surface
of the earth was hard and chill, and bare, and I found no shelter. Oh,
earth! How often did I imprecate curses on the cause of my being! The
mildness of my nature had fled, and all within me was turned to gall
and bitterness. The nearer I approached to your habitation, the more
deeply did I feel the spirit of revenge enkindled in my heart. Snow
fell, and the waters were hardened, but I rested not. A few incidents
now and then directed me, and I possessed a map of the country; but I
often wandered wide from my path. The agony of my feelings allowed me
no respite; no incident occurred from which my rage and misery could
not extract its food; but a circumstance that happened when I arrived
on the confines of Switzerland, when the sun had recovered its warmth
and the earth again began to look green, confirmed in an especial
manner the bitterness and horror of my feelings. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I generally rested during the day and travelled only when I was
secured by night from the view of man. One morning, however, finding
that my path lay through a deep wood, I ventured to continue my journey
after the sun had risen; the day, which was one of the first of spring,
cheered even me by the loveliness of its sunshine and the balminess of
the air. I felt emotions of gentleness and pleasure, that had long
appeared dead, revive within me. Half surprised by the novelty of
these sensations, I allowed myself to be borne away by them, and
forgetting my solitude and deformity, dared to be happy. Soft tears
again bedewed my cheeks, and I even raised my humid eyes with
thankfulness towards the blessed sun, which bestowed such joy upon me. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I continued to wind among the paths of the wood, until I came to its
boundary, which was skirted by a deep and rapid river, into which many
of the trees bent their branches, now budding with the fresh spring.
Here I paused, not exactly knowing what path to pursue, when I heard
the sound of voices, that induced me to conceal myself under the shade
of a cypress. I was scarcely hid when a young girl came running
towards the spot where I was concealed, laughing, as if she ran from
someone in sport. She continued her course along the precipitous sides
of the river, when suddenly her foot slipped, and she fell into the
rapid stream. I rushed from my hiding-place and with extreme labour,
from the force of the current, saved her and dragged her to shore. She
was senseless, and I endeavoured by every means in my power to restore
animation, when I was suddenly interrupted by the approach of a rustic,
who was probably the person from whom she had playfully fled. On
seeing me, he darted towards me, and tearing the girl from my arms,
hastened towards the deeper parts of the wood. I followed speedily, I
hardly knew why; but when the man saw me draw near, he aimed a gun,
which he carried, at my body and fired. I sank to the ground, and my
injurer, with increased swiftness, escaped into the wood. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This was then the reward of my benevolence! I had saved a human being
from destruction, and as a recompense I now writhed under the miserable
pain of a wound which shattered the flesh and bone. The feelings of
kindness and gentleness which I had entertained but a few moments
before gave place to hellish rage and gnashing of teeth. Inflamed by
pain, I vowed eternal hatred and vengeance to all mankind. But the
agony of my wound overcame me; my pulses paused, and I fainted. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “For some weeks I led a miserable life in the woods, endeavouring to
cure the wound which I had received. The ball had entered my shoulder,
and I knew not whether it had remained there or passed through; at any
rate I had no means of extracting it. My sufferings were augmented
also by the oppressive sense of the injustice and ingratitude of their
infliction. My daily vows rose for revenge—a deep and deadly revenge,
such as would alone compensate for the outrages and anguish I had
endured. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “After some weeks my wound healed, and I continued my journey. The
labours I endured were no longer to be alleviated by the bright sun or
gentle breezes of spring; all joy was but a mockery which insulted my
desolate state and made me feel more painfully that I was not made for
the enjoyment of pleasure. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But my toils now drew near a close, and in two months from this time I
reached the environs of Geneva. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It was evening when I arrived, and I retired to a hiding-place among
the fields that surround it to meditate in what manner I should apply
to you. I was oppressed by fatigue and hunger and far too unhappy to
enjoy the gentle breezes of evening or the prospect of the sun setting
behind the stupendous mountains of Jura. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “At this time a slight sleep relieved me from the pain of reflection,
which was disturbed by the approach of a beautiful child, who came
running into the recess I had chosen, with all the sportiveness of
infancy. Suddenly, as I gazed on him, an idea seized me that this
little creature was unprejudiced and had lived too short a time to have
imbibed a horror of deformity. If, therefore, I could seize him and
educate him as my companion and friend, I should not be so desolate in
this peopled earth. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Urged by this impulse, I seized on the boy as he passed and drew him
towards me. As soon as he beheld my form, he placed his hands before
his eyes and uttered a shrill scream; I drew his hand forcibly from his
face and said, ‘Child, what is the meaning of this? I do not intend to
hurt you; listen to me.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He struggled violently. ‘Let me go,’ he cried;
‘monster! Ugly wretch! You wish to eat me and tear me to pieces. You
are an ogre. Let me go, or I will tell my papa.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Hideous monster! Let me go. My papa is a syndic—he is M.
Frankenstein—he will punish you. You dare not keep me.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Frankenstein! you belong then to my enemy—to him towards whom I have
sworn eternal revenge; you shall be my first victim.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The child still struggled and loaded me with epithets which carried
despair to my heart; I grasped his throat to silence him, and in a
moment he lay dead at my feet. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I gazed on my victim, and my heart swelled with exultation and hellish
triumph; clapping my hands, I exclaimed, ‘I too can create desolation;
my enemy is not invulnerable; this death will carry despair to him, and
a thousand other miseries shall torment and destroy him.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “As I fixed my eyes on the child, I saw something glittering on his
breast. I took it; it was a portrait of a most lovely woman. In spite
of my malignity, it softened and attracted me. For a few moments I
gazed with delight on her dark eyes, fringed by deep lashes, and her
lovely lips; but presently my rage returned; I remembered that I was
for ever deprived of the delights that such beautiful creatures could
bestow and that she whose resemblance I contemplated would, in
regarding me, have changed that air of divine benignity to one
expressive of disgust and affright. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Can you wonder that such thoughts transported me with rage? I only
wonder that at that moment, instead of venting my sensations in
exclamations and agony, I did not rush among mankind and perish in the
attempt to destroy them. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “While I was overcome by these feelings, I left the spot where I had
committed the murder, and seeking a more secluded hiding-place, I
entered a barn which had appeared to me to be empty. A woman was
sleeping on some straw; she was young, not indeed so beautiful as her
whose portrait I held, but of an agreeable aspect and blooming in the
loveliness of youth and health. Here, I thought, is one of those whose
joy-imparting smiles are bestowed on all but me. And then I bent over
her and whispered, ‘Awake, fairest, thy lover is near—he who would
give his life but to obtain one look of affection from thine eyes; my
beloved, awake!’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The sleeper stirred; a thrill of terror ran through me. Should she
indeed awake, and see me, and curse me, and denounce the murderer? Thus
would she assuredly act if her darkened eyes opened and she beheld me.
The thought was madness; it stirred the fiend within me—not I, but
she, shall suffer; the murder I have committed because I am for ever
robbed of all that she could give me, she shall atone. The crime had
its source in her; be hers the punishment! Thanks to the lessons of
Felix and the sanguinary laws of man, I had learned now to work
mischief. I bent over her and placed the portrait securely in one of
the folds of her dress. She moved again, and I fled. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “For some days I haunted the spot where these scenes had taken place,
sometimes wishing to see you, sometimes resolved to quit the world and
its miseries for ever. At length I wandered towards these mountains,
and have ranged through their immense recesses, consumed by a burning
passion which you alone can gratify. We may not part until you have
promised to comply with my requisition. I am alone and miserable; man
will not associate with me; but one as deformed and horrible as myself
would not deny herself to me. My companion must be of the same species
and have the same defects. This being you must create.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The being finished speaking and fixed his looks upon me in the
expectation of a reply. But I was bewildered, perplexed, and unable to
arrange my ideas sufficiently to understand the full extent of his
proposition. He continued, </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You must create a female for me with whom I can live in the
interchange of those sympathies necessary for my being. This you alone
can do, and I demand it of you as a right which you must not refuse to
concede.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The latter part of his tale had kindled anew in me the anger that had
died away while he narrated his peaceful life among the cottagers, and
as he said this I could no longer suppress the rage that burned within
me. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I do refuse it,” I replied; “and no torture shall ever extort a
consent from me. You may render me the most miserable of men, but you
shall never make me base in my own eyes. Shall I create another like
yourself, whose joint wickedness might desolate the world. Begone! I
have answered you; you may torture me, but I will never consent.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You are in the wrong,” replied the fiend; “and instead
of threatening, I am content to reason with you. I am malicious because I
am miserable. Am I not shunned and hated by all mankind? You, my creator,
would tear me to pieces and triumph; remember that, and tell me why I
should pity man more than he pities me? You would not call it murder if you
could precipitate me into one of those ice-rifts and destroy my frame, the
work of your own hands. Shall I respect man when he condemns me? Let him
live with me in the interchange of kindness, and instead of injury I would
bestow every benefit upon him with tears of gratitude at his acceptance.
But that cannot be; the human senses are insurmountable barriers to our
union. Yet mine shall not be the submission of abject slavery. I will
revenge my injuries; if I cannot inspire love, I will cause fear, and
chiefly towards you my arch-enemy, because my creator, do I swear
inextinguishable hatred. Have a care; I will work at your destruction, nor
finish until I desolate your heart, so that you shall curse the hour of
your birth.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> A fiendish rage animated him as he said this; his face was wrinkled
into contortions too horrible for human eyes to behold; but presently
he calmed himself and proceeded— </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I intended to reason. This passion is detrimental to me, for you do
not reflect that _you_ are the cause of its excess. If any being felt
emotions of benevolence towards me, I should return them a hundred and a
hundredfold; for that one creature’s sake I would make peace with the
whole kind! But I now indulge in dreams of bliss that cannot be realised.
What I ask of you is reasonable and moderate; I demand a creature of
another sex, but as hideous as myself; the gratification is small, but it
is all that I can receive, and it shall content me. It is true, we shall be
monsters, cut off from all the world; but on that account we shall be more
attached to one another. Our lives will not be happy, but they will be
harmless and free from the misery I now feel. Oh! My creator, make me
happy; let me feel gratitude towards you for one benefit! Let me see that I
excite the sympathy of some existing thing; do not deny me my
request!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I was moved. I shuddered when I thought of the possible consequences
of my consent, but I felt that there was some justice in his argument.
His tale and the feelings he now expressed proved him to be a creature
of fine sensations, and did I not as his maker owe him all the portion
of happiness that it was in my power to bestow? He saw my change of
feeling and continued, </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If you consent, neither you nor any other human being shall ever see
us again; I will go to the vast wilds of South America. My food is not
that of man; I do not destroy the lamb and the kid to glut my appetite;
acorns and berries afford me sufficient nourishment. My companion will
be of the same nature as myself and will be content with the same fare.
We shall make our bed of dried leaves; the sun will shine on us as on
man and will ripen our food. The picture I present to you is peaceful
and human, and you must feel that you could deny it only in the
wantonness of power and cruelty. Pitiless as you have been towards me,
I now see compassion in your eyes; let me seize the favourable moment
and persuade you to promise what I so ardently desire.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You propose,” replied I, “to fly from the habitations of
man, to dwell in those wilds where the beasts of the field will be your
only companions. How can you, who long for the love and sympathy of man,
persevere in this exile? You will return and again seek their kindness, and
you will meet with their detestation; your evil passions will be renewed,
and you will then have a companion to aid you in the task of destruction.
This may not be; cease to argue the point, for I cannot consent.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “How inconstant are your feelings! But a moment ago you were moved by
my representations, and why do you again harden yourself to my complaints?
I swear to you, by the earth which I inhabit, and by you that made me, that
with the companion you bestow, I will quit the neighbourhood of man and
dwell, as it may chance, in the most savage of places. My evil passions
will have fled, for I shall meet with sympathy! My life will flow quietly
away, and in my dying moments I shall not curse my maker.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> His words had a strange effect upon me. I compassionated him and
sometimes felt a wish to console him, but when I looked upon him, when
I saw the filthy mass that moved and talked, my heart sickened and my
feelings were altered to those of horror and hatred. I tried to stifle
these sensations; I thought that as I could not sympathise with him, I
had no right to withhold from him the small portion of happiness which
was yet in my power to bestow. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You swear,” I said, “to be harmless; but have you not
already shown a degree of malice that should reasonably make me distrust
you? May not even this be a feint that will increase your triumph by
affording a wider scope for your revenge?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “How is this? I must not be trifled with, and I demand an answer. If
I have no ties and no affections, hatred and vice must be my portion;
the love of another will destroy the cause of my crimes, and I shall
become a thing of whose existence everyone will be ignorant. My vices
are the children of a forced solitude that I abhor, and my virtues will
necessarily arise when I live in communion with an equal. I shall feel
the affections of a sensitive being and become linked to the chain of
existence and events from which I am now excluded.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I paused some time to reflect on all he had related and the various
arguments which he had employed. I thought of the promise of virtues which
he had displayed on the opening of his existence and the subsequent blight
of all kindly feeling by the loathing and scorn which his protectors had
manifested towards him. His power and threats were not omitted in my
calculations; a creature who could exist in the ice-caves of the glaciers
and hide himself from pursuit among the ridges of inaccessible precipices
was a being possessing faculties it would be vain to cope with. After a
long pause of reflection I concluded that the justice due both to him and
my fellow creatures demanded of me that I should comply with his request.
Turning to him, therefore, I said, </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I consent to your demand, on your solemn oath to quit Europe for ever,
and every other place in the neighbourhood of man, as soon as I shall
deliver into your hands a female who will accompany you in your exile.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I swear,” he cried, “by the sun, and by the blue sky of
heaven, and by the fire of love that burns my heart, that if you grant my
prayer, while they exist you shall never behold me again. Depart to your
home and commence your labours; I shall watch their progress with
unutterable anxiety; and fear not but that when you are ready I shall
appear.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Saying this, he suddenly quitted me, fearful, perhaps, of any change in
my sentiments. I saw him descend the mountain with greater speed than
the flight of an eagle, and quickly lost among the undulations of the
sea of ice. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> His tale had occupied the whole day, and the sun was upon the verge of
the horizon when he departed. I knew that I ought to hasten my descent
towards the valley, as I should soon be encompassed in darkness; but my
heart was heavy, and my steps slow. The labour of winding among the
little paths of the mountain and fixing my feet firmly as I advanced
perplexed me, occupied as I was by the emotions which the occurrences
of the day had produced. Night was far advanced when I came to the
halfway resting-place and seated myself beside the fountain. The stars
shone at intervals as the clouds passed from over them; the dark pines
rose before me, and every here and there a broken tree lay on the
ground; it was a scene of wonderful solemnity and stirred strange
thoughts within me. I wept bitterly, and clasping my hands in agony, I
exclaimed, “Oh! stars and clouds and winds, ye are all about to mock
me; if ye really pity me, crush sensation and memory; let me become as
nought; but if not, depart, depart, and leave me in darkness.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> These were wild and miserable thoughts, but I cannot describe to you
how the eternal twinkling of the stars weighed upon me and how I
listened to every blast of wind as if it were a dull ugly siroc on its
way to consume me. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Morning dawned before I arrived at the village of Chamounix; I took no
rest, but returned immediately to Geneva. Even in my own heart I could
give no expression to my sensations—they weighed on me with a
mountain’s weight and their excess destroyed my agony beneath them.
Thus I returned home, and entering the house, presented myself to the
family. My haggard and wild appearance awoke intense alarm, but I
answered no question, scarcely did I speak. I felt as if I were placed
under a ban—as if I had no right to claim their sympathies—as if
never more might I enjoy companionship with them. Yet even thus I
loved them to adoration; and to save them, I resolved to dedicate
myself to my most abhorred task. The prospect of such an occupation
made every other circumstance of existence pass before me like a dream,
and that thought only had to me the reality of life. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Day after day, week after week, passed away on my return to Geneva; and
I could not collect the courage to recommence my work. I feared the
vengeance of the disappointed fiend, yet I was unable to overcome my
repugnance to the task which was enjoined me. I found that I could not
compose a female without again devoting several months to profound
study and laborious disquisition. I had heard of some discoveries
having been made by an English philosopher, the knowledge of which was
material to my success, and I sometimes thought of obtaining my
father’s consent to visit England for this purpose; but I clung to
every pretence of delay and shrank from taking the first step in an
undertaking whose immediate necessity began to appear less absolute to
me. A change indeed had taken place in me; my health, which had
hitherto declined, was now much restored; and my spirits, when
unchecked by the memory of my unhappy promise, rose proportionably. My
father saw this change with pleasure, and he turned his thoughts
towards the best method of eradicating the remains of my melancholy,
which every now and then would return by fits, and with a devouring
blackness overcast the approaching sunshine. At these moments I took
refuge in the most perfect solitude. I passed whole days on the lake
alone in a little boat, watching the clouds and listening to the
rippling of the waves, silent and listless. But the fresh air and
bright sun seldom failed to restore me to some degree of composure, and
on my return I met the salutations of my friends with a readier smile
and a more cheerful heart. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am happy to remark, my dear son, that you have resumed your former
pleasures and seem to be returning to yourself. And yet you are still
unhappy and still avoid our society. For some time I was lost in
conjecture as to the cause of this, but yesterday an idea struck me,
and if it is well founded, I conjure you to avow it. Reserve on such a
point would be not only useless, but draw down treble misery on us all.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I confess, my son, that I have always looked forward to your
marriage with our dear Elizabeth as the tie of our domestic comfort and the
stay of my declining years. You were attached to each other from your
earliest infancy; you studied together, and appeared, in dispositions and
tastes, entirely suited to one another. But so blind is the experience of
man that what I conceived to be the best assistants to my plan may have
entirely destroyed it. You, perhaps, regard her as your sister, without any
wish that she might become your wife. Nay, you may have met with another
whom you may love; and considering yourself as bound in honour to
Elizabeth, this struggle may occasion the poignant misery which you appear
to feel.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My dear father, reassure yourself. I love my cousin tenderly and
sincerely. I never saw any woman who excited, as Elizabeth does, my
warmest admiration and affection. My future hopes and prospects are
entirely bound up in the expectation of our union.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The expression of your sentiments of this subject, my dear Victor,
gives me more pleasure than I have for some time experienced. If you
feel thus, we shall assuredly be happy, however present events may cast
a gloom over us. But it is this gloom which appears to have taken so
strong a hold of your mind that I wish to dissipate. Tell me,
therefore, whether you object to an immediate solemnisation of the
marriage. We have been unfortunate, and recent events have drawn us
from that everyday tranquillity befitting my years and infirmities. You
are younger; yet I do not suppose, possessed as you are of a competent
fortune, that an early marriage would at all interfere with any future
plans of honour and utility that you may have formed. Do not suppose,
however, that I wish to dictate happiness to you or that a delay on
your part would cause me any serious uneasiness. Interpret my words
with candour and answer me, I conjure you, with confidence and
sincerity.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I listened to my father in silence and remained for some time incapable
of offering any reply. I revolved rapidly in my mind a multitude of
thoughts and endeavoured to arrive at some conclusion. Alas! To me
the idea of an immediate union with my Elizabeth was one of horror and
dismay. I was bound by a solemn promise which I had not yet fulfilled
and dared not break, or if I did, what manifold miseries might not
impend over me and my devoted family! Could I enter into a festival
with this deadly weight yet hanging round my neck and bowing me to the
ground? I must perform my engagement and let the monster depart with
his mate before I allowed myself to enjoy the delight of a union from
which I expected peace. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I remembered also the necessity imposed upon me of either journeying to
England or entering into a long correspondence with those philosophers
of that country whose knowledge and discoveries were of indispensable
use to me in my present undertaking. The latter method of obtaining
the desired intelligence was dilatory and unsatisfactory; besides, I
had an insurmountable aversion to the idea of engaging myself in my
loathsome task in my father’s house while in habits of familiar
intercourse with those I loved. I knew that a thousand fearful
accidents might occur, the slightest of which would disclose a tale to
thrill all connected with me with horror. I was aware also that I
should often lose all self-command, all capacity of hiding the
harrowing sensations that would possess me during the progress of my
unearthly occupation. I must absent myself from all I loved while thus
employed. Once commenced, it would quickly be achieved, and I might be
restored to my family in peace and happiness. My promise fulfilled,
the monster would depart for ever. Or (so my fond fancy imaged) some
accident might meanwhile occur to destroy him and put an end to my
slavery for ever. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> These feelings dictated my answer to my father. I expressed a wish to
visit England, but concealing the true reasons of this request, I
clothed my desires under a guise which excited no suspicion, while I
urged my desire with an earnestness that easily induced my father to
comply. After so long a period of an absorbing melancholy that
resembled madness in its intensity and effects, he was glad to find
that I was capable of taking pleasure in the idea of such a journey,
and he hoped that change of scene and varied amusement would, before my
return, have restored me entirely to myself. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The duration of my absence was left to my own choice; a few months, or
at most a year, was the period contemplated. One paternal kind
precaution he had taken to ensure my having a companion. Without
previously communicating with me, he had, in concert with Elizabeth,
arranged that Clerval should join me at Strasburgh. This interfered
with the solitude I coveted for the prosecution of my task; yet at the
commencement of my journey the presence of my friend could in no way be
an impediment, and truly I rejoiced that thus I should be saved many
hours of lonely, maddening reflection. Nay, Henry might stand between
me and the intrusion of my foe. If I were alone, would he not at times
force his abhorred presence on me to remind me of my task or to
contemplate its progress? </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> To England, therefore, I was bound, and it was understood that my union
with Elizabeth should take place immediately on my return. My father’s
age rendered him extremely averse to delay. For myself, there was one
reward I promised myself from my detested toils—one consolation for my
unparalleled sufferings; it was the prospect of that day when,
enfranchised from my miserable slavery, I might claim Elizabeth and
forget the past in my union with her. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I now made arrangements for my journey, but one feeling haunted me
which filled me with fear and agitation. During my absence I should
leave my friends unconscious of the existence of their enemy and
unprotected from his attacks, exasperated as he might be by my
departure. But he had promised to follow me wherever I might go, and
would he not accompany me to England? This imagination was dreadful in
itself, but soothing inasmuch as it supposed the safety of my friends.
I was agonised with the idea of the possibility that the reverse of
this might happen. But through the whole period during which I was the
slave of my creature I allowed myself to be governed by the impulses of
the moment; and my present sensations strongly intimated that the fiend
would follow me and exempt my family from the danger of his
machinations. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was in the latter end of September that I again quitted my native
country. My journey had been my own suggestion, and Elizabeth
therefore acquiesced, but she was filled with disquiet at the idea of
my suffering, away from her, the inroads of misery and grief. It had
been her care which provided me a companion in Clerval—and yet a man
is blind to a thousand minute circumstances which call forth a woman’s
sedulous attention. She longed to bid me hasten my return; a thousand
conflicting emotions rendered her mute as she bade me a tearful, silent
farewell. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I threw myself into the carriage that was to convey me away, hardly
knowing whither I was going, and careless of what was passing around.
I remembered only, and it was with a bitter anguish that I reflected on
it, to order that my chemical instruments should be packed to go with
me. Filled with dreary imaginations, I passed through many beautiful
and majestic scenes, but my eyes were fixed and unobserving. I could
only think of the bourne of my travels and the work which was to occupy
me whilst they endured. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> After some days spent in listless indolence, during which I traversed
many leagues, I arrived at Strasburgh, where I waited two days for
Clerval. He came. Alas, how great was the contrast between us! He
was alive to every new scene, joyful when he saw the beauties of the
setting sun, and more happy when he beheld it rise and recommence a new
day. He pointed out to me the shifting colours of the landscape and
the appearances of the sky. “This is what it is to live,” he cried;
“now I enjoy existence! But you, my dear Frankenstein, wherefore are
you desponding and sorrowful!” In truth, I was occupied by gloomy
thoughts and neither saw the descent of the evening star nor the golden
sunrise reflected in the Rhine. And you, my friend, would be far more
amused with the journal of Clerval, who observed the scenery with an
eye of feeling and delight, than in listening to my reflections. I, a
miserable wretch, haunted by a curse that shut up every avenue to
enjoyment. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We had agreed to descend the Rhine in a boat from Strasburgh to
Rotterdam, whence we might take shipping for London. During this
voyage we passed many willowy islands and saw several beautiful towns.
We stayed a day at Mannheim, and on the fifth from our departure from
Strasburgh, arrived at Mainz. The course of the Rhine below Mainz
becomes much more picturesque. The river descends rapidly and winds
between hills, not high, but steep, and of beautiful forms. We saw
many ruined castles standing on the edges of precipices, surrounded by
black woods, high and inaccessible. This part of the Rhine, indeed,
presents a singularly variegated landscape. In one spot you view
rugged hills, ruined castles overlooking tremendous precipices, with
the dark Rhine rushing beneath; and on the sudden turn of a promontory,
flourishing vineyards with green sloping banks and a meandering river
and populous towns occupy the scene. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We travelled at the time of the vintage and heard the song of the labourers
as we glided down the stream. Even I, depressed in mind, and my spirits
continually agitated by gloomy feelings, even I was pleased. I lay at the
bottom of the boat, and as I gazed on the cloudless blue sky, I seemed to
drink in a tranquillity to which I had long been a stranger. And if these
were my sensations, who can describe those of Henry? He felt as if he had
been transported to Fairy-land and enjoyed a happiness seldom tasted by
man. “I have seen,” he said, “the most beautiful scenes
of my own country; I have visited the lakes of Lucerne and Uri, where the
snowy mountains descend almost perpendicularly to the water, casting black
and impenetrable shades, which would cause a gloomy and mournful appearance
were it not for the most verdant islands that relieve the eye by their gay
appearance; I have seen this lake agitated by a tempest, when the wind tore
up whirlwinds of water and gave you an idea of what the water-spout must be
on the great ocean; and the waves dash with fury the base of the mountain,
where the priest and his mistress were overwhelmed by an avalanche and
where their dying voices are still said to be heard amid the pauses of the
nightly wind; I have seen the mountains of La Valais, and the Pays de Vaud;
but this country, Victor, pleases me more than all those wonders. The
mountains of Switzerland are more majestic and strange, but there is a
charm in the banks of this divine river that I never before saw equalled.
Look at that castle which overhangs yon precipice; and that also on the
island, almost concealed amongst the foliage of those lovely trees; and now
that group of labourers coming from among their vines; and that village
half hid in the recess of the mountain. Oh, surely the spirit that inhabits
and guards this place has a soul more in harmony with man than those who
pile the glacier or retire to the inaccessible peaks of the mountains of
our own country.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Clerval! Beloved friend! Even now it delights me to record your words and
to dwell on the praise of which you are so eminently deserving. He was a
being formed in the “very poetry of nature.” His wild and
enthusiastic imagination was chastened by the sensibility of his heart. His
soul overflowed with ardent affections, and his friendship was of that
devoted and wondrous nature that the worldly-minded teach us to look for only
in the imagination. But even human sympathies were not sufficient to
satisfy his eager mind. The scenery of external nature, which others regard
only with admiration, he loved with ardour:— </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> ——The sounding cataract
    Haunted him like a passion: the tall rock,
    The mountain, and the deep and gloomy wood,
    Their colours and their forms, were then to him
    An appetite; a feeling, and a love,
    That had no need of a remoter charm,
    By thought supplied, or any interest
    Unborrow’d from the eye. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> And where does he now exist? Is this gentle and lovely being lost
for ever? Has this mind, so replete with ideas, imaginations fanciful
and magnificent, which formed a world, whose existence depended on the
life of its creator;—has this mind perished? Does it now only exist
in my memory? No, it is not thus; your form so divinely wrought, and
beaming with beauty, has decayed, but your spirit still visits and
consoles your unhappy friend. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Pardon this gush of sorrow; these ineffectual words are but a slight
tribute to the unexampled worth of Henry, but they soothe my heart,
overflowing with the anguish which his remembrance creates. I will
proceed with my tale. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Beyond Cologne we descended to the plains of Holland; and we resolved to
post the remainder of our way, for the wind was contrary and the stream of
the river was too gentle to aid us. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Our journey here lost the interest arising from beautiful scenery, but we
arrived in a few days at Rotterdam, whence we proceeded by sea to England.
It was on a clear morning, in the latter days of December, that I first saw
the white cliffs of Britain. The banks of the Thames presented a new scene;
they were flat but fertile, and almost every town was marked by the
remembrance of some story. We saw Tilbury Fort and remembered the Spanish
Armada, Gravesend, Woolwich, and Greenwich—places which I had heard
of even in my country. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> At length we saw the numerous steeples of London, St. Paul’s towering
above all, and the Tower famed in English history. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> London was our present point of rest; we determined to remain several
months in this wonderful and celebrated city. Clerval desired the
intercourse of the men of genius and talent who flourished at this
time, but this was with me a secondary object; I was principally
occupied with the means of obtaining the information necessary for the
completion of my promise and quickly availed myself of the letters of
introduction that I had brought with me, addressed to the most
distinguished natural philosophers. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> If this journey had taken place during my days of study and happiness,
it would have afforded me inexpressible pleasure. But a blight had
come over my existence, and I only visited these people for the sake of
the information they might give me on the subject in which my interest
was so terribly profound. Company was irksome to me; when alone, I
could fill my mind with the sights of heaven and earth; the voice of
Henry soothed me, and I could thus cheat myself into a transitory
peace. But busy, uninteresting, joyous faces brought back despair to
my heart. I saw an insurmountable barrier placed between me and my
fellow men; this barrier was sealed with the blood of William and
Justine, and to reflect on the events connected with those names filled
my soul with anguish. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But in Clerval I saw the image of my former self; he was inquisitive
and anxious to gain experience and instruction. The difference of
manners which he observed was to him an inexhaustible source of
instruction and amusement. He was also pursuing an object he had long
had in view. His design was to visit India, in the belief that he had
in his knowledge of its various languages, and in the views he had
taken of its society, the means of materially assisting the progress of
European colonization and trade. In Britain only could he further the
execution of his plan. He was for ever busy, and the only check to his
enjoyments was my sorrowful and dejected mind. I tried to conceal this
as much as possible, that I might not debar him from the pleasures
natural to one who was entering on a new scene of life, undisturbed by
any care or bitter recollection. I often refused to accompany him,
alleging another engagement, that I might remain alone. I now also
began to collect the materials necessary for my new creation, and this
was to me like the torture of single drops of water continually falling
on the head. Every thought that was devoted to it was an extreme
anguish, and every word that I spoke in allusion to it caused my lips
to quiver, and my heart to palpitate. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> After passing some months in London, we received a letter from a person in
Scotland who had formerly been our visitor at Geneva. He mentioned the
beauties of his native country and asked us if those were not sufficient
allurements to induce us to prolong our journey as far north as Perth,
where he resided. Clerval eagerly desired to accept this invitation, and I,
although I abhorred society, wished to view again mountains and streams and
all the wondrous works with which Nature adorns her chosen dwelling-places. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We had arrived in England at the beginning of October, and it was now
February. We accordingly determined to commence our journey towards the
north at the expiration of another month. In this expedition we did not
intend to follow the great road to Edinburgh, but to visit Windsor, Oxford,
Matlock, and the Cumberland lakes, resolving to arrive at the completion of
this tour about the end of July. I packed up my chemical instruments and
the materials I had collected, resolving to finish my labours in some
obscure nook in the northern highlands of Scotland. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We quitted London on the 27th of March and remained a few days at
Windsor, rambling in its beautiful forest. This was a new scene to us
mountaineers; the majestic oaks, the quantity of game, and the herds of
stately deer were all novelties to us. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> From thence we proceeded to Oxford. As we entered this city, our minds
were filled with the remembrance of the events that had been transacted
there more than a century and a half before. It was here that Charles
I. had collected his forces. This city had remained faithful to him,
after the whole nation had forsaken his cause to join the standard of
Parliament and liberty. The memory of that unfortunate king and his
companions, the amiable Falkland, the insolent Goring, his queen, and
son, gave a peculiar interest to every part of the city which they
might be supposed to have inhabited. The spirit of elder days found a
dwelling here, and we delighted to trace its footsteps. If these
feelings had not found an imaginary gratification, the appearance of
the city had yet in itself sufficient beauty to obtain our admiration.
The colleges are ancient and picturesque; the streets are almost
magnificent; and the lovely Isis, which flows beside it through meadows
of exquisite verdure, is spread forth into a placid expanse of waters,
which reflects its majestic assemblage of towers, and spires, and
domes, embosomed among aged trees. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I enjoyed this scene, and yet my enjoyment was embittered both by the
memory of the past and the anticipation of the future. I was formed
for peaceful happiness. During my youthful days discontent never
visited my mind, and if I was ever overcome by _ennui_, the sight of what
is beautiful in nature or the study of what is excellent and sublime in
the productions of man could always interest my heart and communicate
elasticity to my spirits. But I am a blasted tree; the bolt has
entered my soul; and I felt then that I should survive to exhibit what
I shall soon cease to be—a miserable spectacle of wrecked humanity,
pitiable to others and intolerable to myself. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We passed a considerable period at Oxford, rambling among its environs
and endeavouring to identify every spot which might relate to the most
animating epoch of English history. Our little voyages of discovery
were often prolonged by the successive objects that presented
themselves. We visited the tomb of the illustrious Hampden and the
field on which that patriot fell. For a moment my soul was elevated
from its debasing and miserable fears to contemplate the divine ideas
of liberty and self-sacrifice of which these sights were the monuments
and the remembrancers. For an instant I dared to shake off my chains
and look around me with a free and lofty spirit, but the iron had eaten
into my flesh, and I sank again, trembling and hopeless, into my
miserable self. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We left Oxford with regret and proceeded to Matlock, which was our next
place of rest. The country in the neighbourhood of this village
resembled, to a greater degree, the scenery of Switzerland; but
everything is on a lower scale, and the green hills want the crown of
distant white Alps which always attend on the piny mountains of my
native country. We visited the wondrous cave and the little cabinets
of natural history, where the curiosities are disposed in the same
manner as in the collections at Servox and Chamounix. The latter name
made me tremble when pronounced by Henry, and I hastened to quit
Matlock, with which that terrible scene was thus associated. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> From Derby, still journeying northwards, we passed two months in
Cumberland and Westmorland. I could now almost fancy myself among the
Swiss mountains. The little patches of snow which yet lingered on the
northern sides of the mountains, the lakes, and the dashing of the
rocky streams were all familiar and dear sights to me. Here also we
made some acquaintances, who almost contrived to cheat me into
happiness. The delight of Clerval was proportionably greater than
mine; his mind expanded in the company of men of talent, and he found
in his own nature greater capacities and resources than he could have
imagined himself to have possessed while he associated with his
inferiors. “I could pass my life here,” said he to me; “and among
these mountains I should scarcely regret Switzerland and the Rhine.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But he found that a traveller’s life is one that includes much pain
amidst its enjoyments. His feelings are for ever on the stretch; and
when he begins to sink into repose, he finds himself obliged to quit
that on which he rests in pleasure for something new, which again
engages his attention, and which also he forsakes for other novelties. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We had scarcely visited the various lakes of Cumberland and Westmorland
and conceived an affection for some of the inhabitants when the period
of our appointment with our Scotch friend approached, and we left them
to travel on. For my own part I was not sorry. I had now neglected my
promise for some time, and I feared the effects of the dæmon’s
disappointment. He might remain in Switzerland and wreak his vengeance
on my relatives. This idea pursued me and tormented me at every moment
from which I might otherwise have snatched repose and peace. I waited
for my letters with feverish impatience; if they were delayed I was
miserable and overcome by a thousand fears; and when they arrived and I
saw the superscription of Elizabeth or my father, I hardly dared to
read and ascertain my fate. Sometimes I thought that the fiend
followed me and might expedite my remissness by murdering my companion.
When these thoughts possessed me, I would not quit Henry for a moment,
but followed him as his shadow, to protect him from the fancied rage of
his destroyer. I felt as if I had committed some great crime, the
consciousness of which haunted me. I was guiltless, but I had indeed
drawn down a horrible curse upon my head, as mortal as that of crime. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I visited Edinburgh with languid eyes and mind; and yet that city might
have interested the most unfortunate being. Clerval did not like it so well
as Oxford, for the antiquity of the latter city was more pleasing to him.
But the beauty and regularity of the new town of Edinburgh, its romantic
castle and its environs, the most delightful in the world, Arthur’s
Seat, St. Bernard’s Well, and the Pentland Hills, compensated him for
the change and filled him with cheerfulness and admiration. But I was
impatient to arrive at the termination of my journey. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We left Edinburgh in a week, passing through Coupar, St. Andrew’s, and
along the banks of the Tay, to Perth, where our friend expected us.
But I was in no mood to laugh and talk with strangers or enter into
their feelings or plans with the good humour expected from a guest; and
accordingly I told Clerval that I wished to make the tour of Scotland
alone. “Do you,” said I, “enjoy yourself, and let this be our
rendezvous. I may be absent a month or two; but do not interfere with
my motions, I entreat you; leave me to peace and solitude for a short
time; and when I return, I hope it will be with a lighter heart, more
congenial to your own temper.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Henry wished to dissuade me, but seeing me bent on this plan, ceased to
remonstrate. He entreated me to write often. “I had rather be with
you,” he said, “in your solitary rambles, than with these Scotch
people, whom I do not know; hasten, then, my dear friend, to return,
that I may again feel myself somewhat at home, which I cannot do in
your absence.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Having parted from my friend, I determined to visit some remote spot of
Scotland and finish my work in solitude. I did not doubt but that the
monster followed me and would discover himself to me when I should have
finished, that he might receive his companion. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> With this resolution I traversed the northern highlands and fixed on one of
the remotest of the Orkneys as the scene of my labours. It was a place
fitted for such a work, being hardly more than a rock whose high sides were
continually beaten upon by the waves. The soil was barren, scarcely
affording pasture for a few miserable cows, and oatmeal for its
inhabitants, which consisted of five persons, whose gaunt and scraggy limbs
gave tokens of their miserable fare. Vegetables and bread, when they
indulged in such luxuries, and even fresh water, was to be procured from
the mainland, which was about five miles distant. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> On the whole island there were but three miserable huts, and one of
these was vacant when I arrived. This I hired. It contained but two
rooms, and these exhibited all the squalidness of the most miserable
penury. The thatch had fallen in, the walls were unplastered, and the
door was off its hinges. I ordered it to be repaired, bought some
furniture, and took possession, an incident which would doubtless have
occasioned some surprise had not all the senses of the cottagers been
benumbed by want and squalid poverty. As it was, I lived ungazed at
and unmolested, hardly thanked for the pittance of food and clothes
which I gave, so much does suffering blunt even the coarsest sensations
of men. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In this retreat I devoted the morning to labour; but in the evening,
when the weather permitted, I walked on the stony beach of the sea to
listen to the waves as they roared and dashed at my feet. It was a
monotonous yet ever-changing scene. I thought of Switzerland; it was
far different from this desolate and appalling landscape. Its hills
are covered with vines, and its cottages are scattered thickly in the
plains. Its fair lakes reflect a blue and gentle sky, and when
troubled by the winds, their tumult is but as the play of a lively
infant when compared to the roarings of the giant ocean. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In this manner I distributed my occupations when I first arrived, but
as I proceeded in my labour, it became every day more horrible and
irksome to me. Sometimes I could not prevail on myself to enter my
laboratory for several days, and at other times I toiled day and night
in order to complete my work. It was, indeed, a filthy process in
which I was engaged. During my first experiment, a kind of
enthusiastic frenzy had blinded me to the horror of my employment; my
mind was intently fixed on the consummation of my labour, and my eyes
were shut to the horror of my proceedings. But now I went to it in
cold blood, and my heart often sickened at the work of my hands. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Thus situated, employed in the most detestable occupation, immersed in
a solitude where nothing could for an instant call my attention from
the actual scene in which I was engaged, my spirits became unequal; I
grew restless and nervous. Every moment I feared to meet my
persecutor. Sometimes I sat with my eyes fixed on the ground, fearing
to raise them lest they should encounter the object which I so much
dreaded to behold. I feared to wander from the sight of my fellow
creatures lest when alone he should come to claim his companion. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In the mean time I worked on, and my labour was already considerably
advanced. I looked towards its completion with a tremulous and eager
hope, which I dared not trust myself to question but which was
intermixed with obscure forebodings of evil that made my heart sicken
in my bosom. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I sat one evening in my laboratory; the sun had set, and the moon was just
rising from the sea; I had not sufficient light for my employment, and I
remained idle, in a pause of consideration of whether I should leave my
labour for the night or hasten its conclusion by an unremitting attention
to it. As I sat, a train of reflection occurred to me which led me to
consider the effects of what I was now doing. Three years before, I was
engaged in the same manner and had created a fiend whose unparalleled
barbarity had desolated my heart and filled it for ever with the bitterest
remorse. I was now about to form another being of whose dispositions I was
alike ignorant; she might become ten thousand times more malignant than her
mate and delight, for its own sake, in murder and wretchedness. He had
sworn to quit the neighbourhood of man and hide himself in deserts, but she
had not; and she, who in all probability was to become a thinking and
reasoning animal, might refuse to comply with a compact made before her
creation. They might even hate each other; the creature who already lived
loathed his own deformity, and might he not conceive a greater abhorrence
for it when it came before his eyes in the female form? She also might turn
with disgust from him to the superior beauty of man; she might quit him,
and he be again alone, exasperated by the fresh provocation of being
deserted by one of his own species. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Even if they were to leave Europe and inhabit the deserts of the new world,
yet one of the first results of those sympathies for which the dæmon
thirsted would be children, and a race of devils would be propagated upon
the earth who might make the very existence of the species of man a
condition precarious and full of terror. Had I right, for my own benefit,
to inflict this curse upon everlasting generations? I had before been moved
by the sophisms of the being I had created; I had been struck senseless by
his fiendish threats; but now, for the first time, the wickedness of my
promise burst upon me; I shuddered to think that future ages might curse me
as their pest, whose selfishness had not hesitated to buy its own peace at
the price, perhaps, of the existence of the whole human race. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I trembled and my heart failed within me, when, on looking up, I saw by
the light of the moon the dæmon at the casement. A ghastly grin
wrinkled his lips as he gazed on me, where I sat fulfilling the task
which he had allotted to me. Yes, he had followed me in my travels; he
had loitered in forests, hid himself in caves, or taken refuge in wide
and desert heaths; and he now came to mark my progress and claim the
fulfilment of my promise. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As I looked on him, his countenance expressed the utmost extent of
malice and treachery. I thought with a sensation of madness on my
promise of creating another like to him, and trembling with passion,
tore to pieces the thing on which I was engaged. The wretch saw me
destroy the creature on whose future existence he depended for
happiness, and with a howl of devilish despair and revenge, withdrew. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I left the room, and locking the door, made a solemn vow in my own
heart never to resume my labours; and then, with trembling steps, I
sought my own apartment. I was alone; none were near me to dissipate
the gloom and relieve me from the sickening oppression of the most
terrible reveries. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Several hours passed, and I remained near my window gazing on the sea;
it was almost motionless, for the winds were hushed, and all nature
reposed under the eye of the quiet moon. A few fishing vessels alone
specked the water, and now and then the gentle breeze wafted the sound
of voices as the fishermen called to one another. I felt the silence,
although I was hardly conscious of its extreme profundity, until my ear
was suddenly arrested by the paddling of oars near the shore, and a
person landed close to my house. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In a few minutes after, I heard the creaking of my door, as if some one
endeavoured to open it softly. I trembled from head to foot; I felt a
presentiment of who it was and wished to rouse one of the peasants who
dwelt in a cottage not far from mine; but I was overcome by the sensation
of helplessness, so often felt in frightful dreams, when you in vain
endeavour to fly from an impending danger, and was rooted to the spot. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Presently I heard the sound of footsteps along the passage; the door
opened, and the wretch whom I dreaded appeared. Shutting the door, he
approached me and said in a smothered voice, </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You have destroyed the work which you began; what is it that you
intend? Do you dare to break your promise? I have endured toil and misery;
I left Switzerland with you; I crept along the shores of the Rhine, among
its willow islands and over the summits of its hills. I have dwelt many
months in the heaths of England and among the deserts of Scotland. I have
endured incalculable fatigue, and cold, and hunger; do you dare destroy my
hopes?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Slave, I before reasoned with you, but you have proved yourself
unworthy of my condescension. Remember that I have power; you believe
yourself miserable, but I can make you so wretched that the light of
day will be hateful to you. You are my creator, but I am your master;
obey!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The hour of my irresolution is past, and the period of your power is
arrived. Your threats cannot move me to do an act of wickedness; but
they confirm me in a determination of not creating you a companion in
vice. Shall I, in cool blood, set loose upon the earth a dæmon whose
delight is in death and wretchedness? Begone! I am firm, and your
words will only exasperate my rage.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The monster saw my determination in my face and gnashed his teeth in the
impotence of anger. “Shall each man,” cried he, “find a
wife for his bosom, and each beast have his mate, and I be alone? I had
feelings of affection, and they were requited by detestation and scorn.
Man! You may hate, but beware! Your hours will pass in dread and misery,
and soon the bolt will fall which must ravish from you your happiness for
ever. Are you to be happy while I grovel in the intensity of my
wretchedness? You can blast my other passions, but revenge
remains—revenge, henceforth dearer than light or food! I may die, but
first you, my tyrant and tormentor, shall curse the sun that gazes on your
misery. Beware, for I am fearless and therefore powerful. I will watch with
the wiliness of a snake, that I may sting with its venom. Man, you shall
repent of the injuries you inflict.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Devil, cease; and do not poison the air with these sounds of malice.
I have declared my resolution to you, and I am no coward to bend
beneath words. Leave me; I am inexorable.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I would have seized him, but he eluded me and quitted the house with
precipitation. In a few moments I saw him in his boat, which shot
across the waters with an arrowy swiftness and was soon lost amidst the
waves. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> All was again silent, but his words rang in my ears. I burned with rage to
pursue the murderer of my peace and precipitate him into the ocean. I
walked up and down my room hastily and perturbed, while my imagination
conjured up a thousand images to torment and sting me. Why had I not
followed him and closed with him in mortal strife? But I had suffered him
to depart, and he had directed his course towards the mainland. I shuddered
to think who might be the next victim sacrificed to his insatiate revenge.
And then I thought again of his words—“_I will be with you on
your wedding-night._” That, then, was the period fixed for the
fulfilment of my destiny. In that hour I should die and at once satisfy and
extinguish his malice. The prospect did not move me to fear; yet when I
thought of my beloved Elizabeth, of her tears and endless sorrow, when she
should find her lover so barbarously snatched from her, tears, the first I
had shed for many months, streamed from my eyes, and I resolved not to fall
before my enemy without a bitter struggle. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The night passed away, and the sun rose from the ocean; my feelings became
calmer, if it may be called calmness when the violence of rage sinks into
the depths of despair. I left the house, the horrid scene of the last
night’s contention, and walked on the beach of the sea, which I
almost regarded as an insuperable barrier between me and my fellow
creatures; nay, a wish that such should prove the fact stole across me. I
desired that I might pass my life on that barren rock, wearily, it is true,
but uninterrupted by any sudden shock of misery. If I returned, it was to
be sacrificed or to see those whom I most loved die under the grasp of a
dæmon whom I had myself created. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I walked about the isle like a restless spectre, separated from all it
loved and miserable in the separation. When it became noon, and the
sun rose higher, I lay down on the grass and was overpowered by a deep
sleep. I had been awake the whole of the preceding night, my nerves
were agitated, and my eyes inflamed by watching and misery. The sleep
into which I now sank refreshed me; and when I awoke, I again felt as
if I belonged to a race of human beings like myself, and I began to
reflect upon what had passed with greater composure; yet still the
words of the fiend rang in my ears like a death-knell; they appeared
like a dream, yet distinct and oppressive as a reality. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The sun had far descended, and I still sat on the shore, satisfying my
appetite, which had become ravenous, with an oaten cake, when I saw a
fishing-boat land close to me, and one of the men brought me a packet;
it contained letters from Geneva, and one from Clerval entreating me to
join him. He said that he was wearing away his time fruitlessly where
he was, that letters from the friends he had formed in London desired
his return to complete the negotiation they had entered into for his
Indian enterprise. He could not any longer delay his departure; but as
his journey to London might be followed, even sooner than he now
conjectured, by his longer voyage, he entreated me to bestow as much of
my society on him as I could spare. He besought me, therefore, to
leave my solitary isle and to meet him at Perth, that we might proceed
southwards together. This letter in a degree recalled me to life, and
I determined to quit my island at the expiration of two days. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Yet, before I departed, there was a task to perform, on which I shuddered
to reflect; I must pack up my chemical instruments, and for that purpose I
must enter the room which had been the scene of my odious work, and I must
handle those utensils the sight of which was sickening to me. The next
morning, at daybreak, I summoned sufficient courage and unlocked the door
of my laboratory. The remains of the half-finished creature, whom I had
destroyed, lay scattered on the floor, and I almost felt as if I had
mangled the living flesh of a human being. I paused to collect myself and
then entered the chamber. With trembling hand I conveyed the instruments
out of the room, but I reflected that I ought not to leave the relics of my
work to excite the horror and suspicion of the peasants; and I accordingly
put them into a basket, with a great quantity of stones, and laying them
up, determined to throw them into the sea that very night; and in the
meantime I sat upon the beach, employed in cleaning and arranging my
chemical apparatus. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Nothing could be more complete than the alteration that had taken place
in my feelings since the night of the appearance of the dæmon. I had
before regarded my promise with a gloomy despair as a thing that, with
whatever consequences, must be fulfilled; but I now felt as if a film
had been taken from before my eyes and that I for the first time saw
clearly. The idea of renewing my labours did not for one instant occur
to me; the threat I had heard weighed on my thoughts, but I did not
reflect that a voluntary act of mine could avert it. I had resolved in
my own mind that to create another like the fiend I had first made
would be an act of the basest and most atrocious selfishness, and I
banished from my mind every thought that could lead to a different
conclusion. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Between two and three in the morning the moon rose; and I then, putting my
basket aboard a little skiff, sailed out about four miles from the shore.
The scene was perfectly solitary; a few boats were returning towards land,
but I sailed away from them. I felt as if I was about the commission of a
dreadful crime and avoided with shuddering anxiety any encounter with my
fellow creatures. At one time the moon, which had before been clear, was
suddenly overspread by a thick cloud, and I took advantage of the moment of
darkness and cast my basket into the sea; I listened to the gurgling sound
as it sank and then sailed away from the spot. The sky became clouded, but
the air was pure, although chilled by the northeast breeze that was then
rising. But it refreshed me and filled me with such agreeable sensations
that I resolved to prolong my stay on the water, and fixing the rudder in a
direct position, stretched myself at the bottom of the boat. Clouds hid the
moon, everything was obscure, and I heard only the sound of the boat as its
keel cut through the waves; the murmur lulled me, and in a short time I
slept soundly. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I do not know how long I remained in this situation, but when I awoke I
found that the sun had already mounted considerably. The wind was high, and
the waves continually threatened the safety of my little skiff. I found
that the wind was northeast and must have driven me far from the coast from
which I had embarked. I endeavoured to change my course but quickly found
that if I again made the attempt the boat would be instantly filled with
water. Thus situated, my only resource was to drive before the wind. I
confess that I felt a few sensations of terror. I had no compass with me
and was so slenderly acquainted with the geography of this part of the
world that the sun was of little benefit to me. I might be driven into the
wide Atlantic and feel all the tortures of starvation or be swallowed up in
the immeasurable waters that roared and buffeted around me. I had already
been out many hours and felt the torment of a burning thirst, a prelude to
my other sufferings. I looked on the heavens, which were covered by clouds
that flew before the wind, only to be replaced by others; I looked upon the
sea; it was to be my grave. “Fiend,” I exclaimed, “your
task is already fulfilled!” I thought of Elizabeth, of my father, and
of Clerval—all left behind, on whom the monster might satisfy his
sanguinary and merciless passions. This idea plunged me into a reverie so
despairing and frightful that even now, when the scene is on the point of
closing before me for ever, I shudder to reflect on it. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Some hours passed thus; but by degrees, as the sun declined towards the
horizon, the wind died away into a gentle breeze and the sea became
free from breakers. But these gave place to a heavy swell; I felt sick
and hardly able to hold the rudder, when suddenly I saw a line of high
land towards the south. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Almost spent, as I was, by fatigue and the dreadful suspense I endured
for several hours, this sudden certainty of life rushed like a flood of
warm joy to my heart, and tears gushed from my eyes. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> How mutable are our feelings, and how strange is that clinging love we have
of life even in the excess of misery! I constructed another sail with a
part of my dress and eagerly steered my course towards the land. It had a
wild and rocky appearance, but as I approached nearer I easily perceived
the traces of cultivation. I saw vessels near the shore and found myself
suddenly transported back to the neighbourhood of civilised man. I
carefully traced the windings of the land and hailed a steeple which I at
length saw issuing from behind a small promontory. As I was in a state of
extreme debility, I resolved to sail directly towards the town, as a place
where I could most easily procure nourishment. Fortunately I had money with
me. As I turned the promontory I perceived a small neat town and a good
harbour, which I entered, my heart bounding with joy at my unexpected
escape. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As I was occupied in fixing the boat and arranging the sails, several
people crowded towards the spot. They seemed much surprised at my
appearance, but instead of offering me any assistance, whispered
together with gestures that at any other time might have produced in me
a slight sensation of alarm. As it was, I merely remarked that they
spoke English, and I therefore addressed them in that language. “My
good friends,” said I, “will you be so kind as to tell me the name of
this town and inform me where I am?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You will know that soon enough,” replied a man with a hoarse voice.
“Maybe you are come to a place that will not prove much to your taste,
but you will not be consulted as to your quarters, I promise you.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I was exceedingly surprised on receiving so rude an answer from a
stranger, and I was also disconcerted on perceiving the frowning and
angry countenances of his companions. “Why do you answer me so
roughly?” I replied. “Surely it is not the custom of Englishmen to
receive strangers so inhospitably.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I do not know,” said the man, “what the custom of the
English may be, but it is the custom of the Irish to hate villains.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> While this strange dialogue continued, I perceived the crowd rapidly
increase. Their faces expressed a mixture of curiosity and anger, which
annoyed and in some degree alarmed me. I inquired the way to the inn, but
no one replied. I then moved forward, and a murmuring sound arose from the
crowd as they followed and surrounded me, when an ill-looking man
approaching tapped me on the shoulder and said, “Come, sir, you must
follow me to Mr. Kirwin’s to give an account of yourself.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Ay, sir, free enough for honest folks. Mr. Kirwin is a magistrate,
and you are to give an account of the death of a gentleman who was
found murdered here last night.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This answer startled me, but I presently recovered myself. I was innocent;
that could easily be proved; accordingly I followed my conductor in silence
and was led to one of the best houses in the town. I was ready to sink from
fatigue and hunger, but being surrounded by a crowd, I thought it politic
to rouse all my strength, that no physical debility might be construed into
apprehension or conscious guilt. Little did I then expect the calamity that
was in a few moments to overwhelm me and extinguish in horror and despair
all fear of ignominy or death. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I must pause here, for it requires all my fortitude to recall the memory of
the frightful events which I am about to relate, in proper detail, to my
recollection. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I was soon introduced into the presence of the magistrate, an old
benevolent man with calm and mild manners. He looked upon me, however,
with some degree of severity, and then, turning towards my conductors,
he asked who appeared as witnesses on this occasion. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> About half a dozen men came forward; and, one being selected by the
magistrate, he deposed that he had been out fishing the night before with
his son and brother-in-law, Daniel Nugent, when, about ten o’clock,
they observed a strong northerly blast rising, and they accordingly put in
for port. It was a very dark night, as the moon had not yet risen; they did
not land at the harbour, but, as they had been accustomed, at a creek about
two miles below. He walked on first, carrying a part of the fishing tackle,
and his companions followed him at some distance. As he was proceeding
along the sands, he struck his foot against something and fell at his
length on the ground. His companions came up to assist him, and by the
light of their lantern they found that he had fallen on the body of a man,
who was to all appearance dead. Their first supposition was that it was the
corpse of some person who had been drowned and was thrown on shore by the
waves, but on examination they found that the clothes were not wet and even
that the body was not then cold. They instantly carried it to the cottage
of an old woman near the spot and endeavoured, but in vain, to restore it
to life. It appeared to be a handsome young man, about five and twenty
years of age. He had apparently been strangled, for there was no sign of
any violence except the black mark of fingers on his neck. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The first part of this deposition did not in the least interest me, but
when the mark of the fingers was mentioned I remembered the murder of
my brother and felt myself extremely agitated; my limbs trembled, and a
mist came over my eyes, which obliged me to lean on a chair for
support. The magistrate observed me with a keen eye and of course drew
an unfavourable augury from my manner. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The son confirmed his father’s account, but when Daniel Nugent was
called he swore positively that just before the fall of his companion, he
saw a boat, with a single man in it, at a short distance from the shore;
and as far as he could judge by the light of a few stars, it was the same
boat in which I had just landed. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> A woman deposed that she lived near the beach and was standing at the door
of her cottage, waiting for the return of the fishermen, about an hour
before she heard of the discovery of the body, when she saw a boat with
only one man in it push off from that part of the shore where the corpse
was afterwards found. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Another woman confirmed the account of the fishermen having brought the
body into her house; it was not cold. They put it into a bed and
rubbed it, and Daniel went to the town for an apothecary, but life was
quite gone. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Several other men were examined concerning my landing, and they agreed
that, with the strong north wind that had arisen during the night, it
was very probable that I had beaten about for many hours and had been
obliged to return nearly to the same spot from which I had departed.
Besides, they observed that it appeared that I had brought the body
from another place, and it was likely that as I did not appear to know
the shore, I might have put into the harbour ignorant of the distance
of the town of —— from the place where I had deposited the corpse. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Kirwin, on hearing this evidence, desired that I should be taken into
the room where the body lay for interment, that it might be observed what
effect the sight of it would produce upon me. This idea was probably
suggested by the extreme agitation I had exhibited when the mode of the
murder had been described. I was accordingly conducted, by the magistrate
and several other persons, to the inn. I could not help being struck by the
strange coincidences that had taken place during this eventful night; but,
knowing that I had been conversing with several persons in the island I had
inhabited about the time that the body had been found, I was perfectly
tranquil as to the consequences of the affair. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I entered the room where the corpse lay and was led up to the coffin. How
can I describe my sensations on beholding it? I feel yet parched with
horror, nor can I reflect on that terrible moment without shuddering and
agony. The examination, the presence of the magistrate and witnesses,
passed like a dream from my memory when I saw the lifeless form of Henry
Clerval stretched before me. I gasped for breath, and throwing myself on
the body, I exclaimed, “Have my murderous machinations deprived you
also, my dearest Henry, of life? Two I have already destroyed; other
victims await their destiny; but you, Clerval, my friend, my
benefactor—” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The human frame could no longer support the agonies that I endured, and
I was carried out of the room in strong convulsions. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> A fever succeeded to this. I lay for two months on the point of death; my
ravings, as I afterwards heard, were frightful; I called myself the
murderer of William, of Justine, and of Clerval. Sometimes I entreated my
attendants to assist me in the destruction of the fiend by whom I was
tormented; and at others I felt the fingers of the monster already grasping
my neck, and screamed aloud with agony and terror. Fortunately, as I spoke
my native language, Mr. Kirwin alone understood me; but my gestures and
bitter cries were sufficient to affright the other witnesses. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Why did I not die? More miserable than man ever was before, why did I not
sink into forgetfulness and rest? Death snatches away many blooming
children, the only hopes of their doting parents; how many brides and
youthful lovers have been one day in the bloom of health and hope, and the
next a prey for worms and the decay of the tomb! Of what materials was I
made that I could thus resist so many shocks, which, like the turning of
the wheel, continually renewed the torture? </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But I was doomed to live and in two months found myself as awaking from
a dream, in a prison, stretched on a wretched bed, surrounded by
gaolers, turnkeys, bolts, and all the miserable apparatus of a dungeon.
It was morning, I remember, when I thus awoke to understanding; I had
forgotten the particulars of what had happened and only felt as if some
great misfortune had suddenly overwhelmed me; but when I looked around
and saw the barred windows and the squalidness of the room in which I
was, all flashed across my memory and I groaned bitterly. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This sound disturbed an old woman who was sleeping in a chair beside
me. She was a hired nurse, the wife of one of the turnkeys, and her
countenance expressed all those bad qualities which often characterise
that class. The lines of her face were hard and rude, like that of
persons accustomed to see without sympathising in sights of misery. Her
tone expressed her entire indifference; she addressed me in English,
and the voice struck me as one that I had heard during my sufferings. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I replied in the same language, with a feeble voice, “I believe I am;
but if it be all true, if indeed I did not dream, I am sorry that I am
still alive to feel this misery and horror.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “For that matter,” replied the old woman, “if you mean about the
gentleman you murdered, I believe that it were better for you if you
were dead, for I fancy it will go hard with you! However, that’s none
of my business; I am sent to nurse you and get you well; I do my duty
with a safe conscience; it were well if everybody did the same.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I turned with loathing from the woman who could utter so unfeeling a
speech to a person just saved, on the very edge of death; but I felt
languid and unable to reflect on all that had passed. The whole series
of my life appeared to me as a dream; I sometimes doubted if indeed it
were all true, for it never presented itself to my mind with the force
of reality. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As the images that floated before me became more distinct, I grew
feverish; a darkness pressed around me; no one was near me who soothed
me with the gentle voice of love; no dear hand supported me. The
physician came and prescribed medicines, and the old woman prepared
them for me; but utter carelessness was visible in the first, and the
expression of brutality was strongly marked in the visage of the
second. Who could be interested in the fate of a murderer but the
hangman who would gain his fee? </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> These were my first reflections, but I soon learned that Mr. Kirwin had
shown me extreme kindness. He had caused the best room in the prison
to be prepared for me (wretched indeed was the best); and it was he who
had provided a physician and a nurse. It is true, he seldom came to
see me, for although he ardently desired to relieve the sufferings of
every human creature, he did not wish to be present at the agonies and
miserable ravings of a murderer. He came, therefore, sometimes to see
that I was not neglected, but his visits were short and with long
intervals. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> One day, while I was gradually recovering, I was seated in a chair, my eyes
half open and my cheeks livid like those in death. I was overcome by gloom
and misery and often reflected I had better seek death than desire to
remain in a world which to me was replete with wretchedness. At one time I
considered whether I should not declare myself guilty and suffer the
penalty of the law, less innocent than poor Justine had been. Such were my
thoughts when the door of my apartment was opened and Mr. Kirwin entered.
His countenance expressed sympathy and compassion; he drew a chair close to
mine and addressed me in French, </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I thank you, but all that you mention is nothing to me; on the whole
earth there is no comfort which I am capable of receiving.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I know that the sympathy of a stranger can be but of little relief to
one borne down as you are by so strange a misfortune. But you will, I
hope, soon quit this melancholy abode, for doubtless evidence can
easily be brought to free you from the criminal charge.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That is my least concern; I am, by a course of strange events, become
the most miserable of mortals. Persecuted and tortured as I am and
have been, can death be any evil to me?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Nothing indeed could be more unfortunate and agonising than the
strange chances that have lately occurred. You were thrown, by some
surprising accident, on this shore, renowned for its hospitality,
seized immediately, and charged with murder. The first sight that was
presented to your eyes was the body of your friend, murdered in so
unaccountable a manner and placed, as it were, by some fiend across
your path.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As Mr. Kirwin said this, notwithstanding the agitation I endured on
this retrospect of my sufferings, I also felt considerable surprise at
the knowledge he seemed to possess concerning me. I suppose some
astonishment was exhibited in my countenance, for Mr. Kirwin hastened
to say, </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Immediately upon your being taken ill, all the papers that were on
your person were brought me, and I examined them that I might discover some
trace by which I could send to your relations an account of your misfortune
and illness. I found several letters, and, among others, one which I
discovered from its commencement to be from your father. I instantly wrote
to Geneva; nearly two months have elapsed since the departure of my letter.
But you are ill; even now you tremble; you are unfit for agitation of any
kind.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This suspense is a thousand times worse than the most horrible event;
tell me what new scene of death has been acted, and whose murder I am
now to lament?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I know not by what chain of thought the idea presented itself, but it
instantly darted into my mind that the murderer had come to mock at my
misery and taunt me with the death of Clerval, as a new incitement for
me to comply with his hellish desires. I put my hand before my eyes,
and cried out in agony, </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Kirwin regarded me with a troubled countenance. He could not help
regarding my exclamation as a presumption of my guilt and said in
rather a severe tone, </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I should have thought, young man, that the presence of your father
would have been welcome instead of inspiring such violent repugnance.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My father!” cried I, while every feature and every muscle was relaxed
from anguish to pleasure. “Is my father indeed come? How kind, how
very kind! But where is he, why does he not hasten to me?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> My change of manner surprised and pleased the magistrate; perhaps he
thought that my former exclamation was a momentary return of delirium,
and now he instantly resumed his former benevolence. He rose and
quitted the room with my nurse, and in a moment my father entered it. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Nothing, at this moment, could have given me greater pleasure than the
arrival of my father. I stretched out my hand to him and cried, </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> My father calmed me with assurances of their welfare and endeavoured, by
dwelling on these subjects so interesting to my heart, to raise my
desponding spirits; but he soon felt that a prison cannot be the abode of
cheerfulness. “What a place is this that you inhabit, my son!”
said he, looking mournfully at the barred windows and wretched appearance
of the room. “You travelled to seek happiness, but a fatality seems
to pursue you. And poor Clerval—” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The name of my unfortunate and murdered friend was an agitation too
great to be endured in my weak state; I shed tears. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Alas! Yes, my father,” replied I; “some destiny of the
most horrible kind hangs over me, and I must live to fulfil it, or surely I
should have died on the coffin of Henry.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We were not allowed to converse for any length of time, for the
precarious state of my health rendered every precaution necessary that
could ensure tranquillity. Mr. Kirwin came in and insisted that my
strength should not be exhausted by too much exertion. But the
appearance of my father was to me like that of my good angel, and I
gradually recovered my health. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As my sickness quitted me, I was absorbed by a gloomy and black
melancholy that nothing could dissipate. The image of Clerval was
for ever before me, ghastly and murdered. More than once the agitation
into which these reflections threw me made my friends dread a dangerous
relapse. Alas! Why did they preserve so miserable and detested a
life? It was surely that I might fulfil my destiny, which is now
drawing to a close. Soon, oh, very soon, will death extinguish these
throbbings and relieve me from the mighty weight of anguish that bears
me to the dust; and, in executing the award of justice, I shall also
sink to rest. Then the appearance of death was distant, although the
wish was ever present to my thoughts; and I often sat for hours
motionless and speechless, wishing for some mighty revolution that
might bury me and my destroyer in its ruins. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The season of the assizes approached. I had already been three months
in prison, and although I was still weak and in continual danger of a
relapse, I was obliged to travel nearly a hundred miles to the country
town where the court was held. Mr. Kirwin charged himself with every
care of collecting witnesses and arranging my defence. I was spared
the disgrace of appearing publicly as a criminal, as the case was not
brought before the court that decides on life and death. The grand
jury rejected the bill, on its being proved that I was on the Orkney
Islands at the hour the body of my friend was found; and a fortnight
after my removal I was liberated from prison. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> My father was enraptured on finding me freed from the vexations of a
criminal charge, that I was again allowed to breathe the fresh
atmosphere and permitted to return to my native country. I did not
participate in these feelings, for to me the walls of a dungeon or a
palace were alike hateful. The cup of life was poisoned for ever, and
although the sun shone upon me, as upon the happy and gay of heart, I
saw around me nothing but a dense and frightful darkness, penetrated by
no light but the glimmer of two eyes that glared upon me. Sometimes
they were the expressive eyes of Henry, languishing in death, the dark
orbs nearly covered by the lids and the long black lashes that fringed
them; sometimes it was the watery, clouded eyes of the monster, as I
first saw them in my chamber at Ingolstadt. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> My father tried to awaken in me the feelings of affection. He talked
of Geneva, which I should soon visit, of Elizabeth and Ernest; but
these words only drew deep groans from me. Sometimes, indeed, I felt a
wish for happiness and thought with melancholy delight of my beloved
cousin or longed, with a devouring _maladie du pays_, to see once more
the blue lake and rapid Rhone, that had been so dear to me in early
childhood; but my general state of feeling was a torpor in which a
prison was as welcome a residence as the divinest scene in nature; and
these fits were seldom interrupted but by paroxysms of anguish and
despair. At these moments I often endeavoured to put an end to the
existence I loathed, and it required unceasing attendance and vigilance
to restrain me from committing some dreadful act of violence. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Yet one duty remained to me, the recollection of which finally
triumphed over my selfish despair. It was necessary that I should
return without delay to Geneva, there to watch over the lives of those
I so fondly loved and to lie in wait for the murderer, that if any
chance led me to the place of his concealment, or if he dared again to
blast me by his presence, I might, with unfailing aim, put an end to
the existence of the monstrous image which I had endued with the
mockery of a soul still more monstrous. My father still desired to
delay our departure, fearful that I could not sustain the fatigues of a
journey, for I was a shattered wreck—the shadow of a human being. My
strength was gone. I was a mere skeleton, and fever night and day
preyed upon my wasted frame. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Still, as I urged our leaving Ireland with such inquietude and impatience,
my father thought it best to yield. We took our passage on board a vessel
bound for Havre-de-Grace and sailed with a fair wind from the Irish shores.
It was midnight. I lay on the deck looking at the stars and listening to
the dashing of the waves. I hailed the darkness that shut Ireland from my
sight, and my pulse beat with a feverish joy when I reflected that I should
soon see Geneva. The past appeared to me in the light of a frightful dream;
yet the vessel in which I was, the wind that blew me from the detested
shore of Ireland, and the sea which surrounded me, told me too forcibly
that I was deceived by no vision and that Clerval, my friend and dearest
companion, had fallen a victim to me and the monster of my creation. I
repassed, in my memory, my whole life; my quiet happiness while residing
with my family in Geneva, the death of my mother, and my departure for
Ingolstadt. I remembered, shuddering, the mad enthusiasm that hurried me on
to the creation of my hideous enemy, and I called to mind the night in
which he first lived. I was unable to pursue the train of thought; a
thousand feelings pressed upon me, and I wept bitterly. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Ever since my recovery from the fever, I had been in the custom of taking
every night a small quantity of laudanum, for it was by means of this drug
only that I was enabled to gain the rest necessary for the preservation of
life. Oppressed by the recollection of my various misfortunes, I now
swallowed double my usual quantity and soon slept profoundly. But sleep did
not afford me respite from thought and misery; my dreams presented a
thousand objects that scared me. Towards morning I was possessed by a kind
of nightmare; I felt the fiend’s grasp in my neck and could not free
myself from it; groans and cries rang in my ears. My father, who was
watching over me, perceiving my restlessness, awoke me; the dashing waves
were around, the cloudy sky above, the fiend was not here: a sense of
security, a feeling that a truce was established between the present hour
and the irresistible, disastrous future imparted to me a kind of calm
forgetfulness, of which the human mind is by its structure peculiarly
susceptible. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The voyage came to an end. We landed, and proceeded to Paris. I soon
found that I had overtaxed my strength and that I must repose before I
could continue my journey. My father’s care and attentions were
indefatigable, but he did not know the origin of my sufferings and
sought erroneous methods to remedy the incurable ill. He wished me to
seek amusement in society. I abhorred the face of man. Oh, not
abhorred! They were my brethren, my fellow beings, and I felt
attracted even to the most repulsive among them, as to creatures of an
angelic nature and celestial mechanism. But I felt that I had no right
to share their intercourse. I had unchained an enemy among them whose
joy it was to shed their blood and to revel in their groans. How they
would, each and all, abhor me and hunt me from the world, did they know
my unhallowed acts and the crimes which had their source in me! </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> My father yielded at length to my desire to avoid society and strove by
various arguments to banish my despair. Sometimes he thought that I
felt deeply the degradation of being obliged to answer a charge of
murder, and he endeavoured to prove to me the futility of pride. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Alas! My father,” said I, “how little do you know me. 
Human beings, their feelings and passions, would indeed be degraded if such
a wretch as I felt pride. Justine, poor unhappy Justine, was as innocent
as I, and she suffered the same charge; she died for it; and I am the cause
of this—I murdered her. William, Justine, and Henry—they all
died by my hands.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> My father had often, during my imprisonment, heard me make the same
assertion; when I thus accused myself, he sometimes seemed to desire an
explanation, and at others he appeared to consider it as the offspring of
delirium, and that, during my illness, some idea of this kind had presented
itself to my imagination, the remembrance of which I preserved in my
convalescence. I avoided explanation and maintained a continual silence
concerning the wretch I had created. I had a persuasion that I should be
supposed mad, and this in itself would for ever have chained my tongue. But,
besides, I could not bring myself to disclose a secret which would fill my
hearer with consternation and make fear and unnatural horror the inmates of
his breast. I checked, therefore, my impatient thirst for sympathy and was
silent when I would have given the world to have confided the fatal secret.
Yet, still, words like those I have recorded would burst uncontrollably
from me. I could offer no explanation of them, but their truth in part
relieved the burden of my mysterious woe. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Upon this occasion my father said, with an expression of unbounded wonder,
“My dearest Victor, what infatuation is this? My dear son, I entreat
you never to make such an assertion again.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am not mad,” I cried energetically; “the sun and the heavens, who
have viewed my operations, can bear witness of my truth. I am the
assassin of those most innocent victims; they died by my machinations.
A thousand times would I have shed my own blood, drop by drop, to have
saved their lives; but I could not, my father, indeed I could not
sacrifice the whole human race.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The conclusion of this speech convinced my father that my ideas were
deranged, and he instantly changed the subject of our conversation and
endeavoured to alter the course of my thoughts. He wished as much as
possible to obliterate the memory of the scenes that had taken place in
Ireland and never alluded to them or suffered me to speak of my
misfortunes. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As time passed away I became more calm; misery had her dwelling in my
heart, but I no longer talked in the same incoherent manner of my own
crimes; sufficient for me was the consciousness of them. By the utmost
self-violence I curbed the imperious voice of wretchedness, which
sometimes desired to declare itself to the whole world, and my manners
were calmer and more composed than they had ever been since my journey
to the sea of ice. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It gave me the greatest pleasure to receive a letter from my uncle
dated at Paris; you are no longer at a formidable distance, and I may
hope to see you in less than a fortnight. My poor cousin, how much you
must have suffered! I expect to see you looking even more ill than
when you quitted Geneva. This winter has been passed most miserably,
tortured as I have been by anxious suspense; yet I hope to see peace in
your countenance and to find that your heart is not totally void of
comfort and tranquillity. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yet I fear that the same feelings now exist that made you so miserable
a year ago, even perhaps augmented by time. I would not disturb you at
this period, when so many misfortunes weigh upon you, but a
conversation that I had with my uncle previous to his departure renders
some explanation necessary before we meet. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Explanation! You may possibly say, What can Elizabeth have to explain? If
you really say this, my questions are answered and all my doubts satisfied.
But you are distant from me, and it is possible that you may dread and yet
be pleased with this explanation; and in a probability of this being the
case, I dare not any longer postpone writing what, during your absence, I
have often wished to express to you but have never had the courage to begin. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You well know, Victor, that our union had been the favourite plan of
your parents ever since our infancy. We were told this when young, and
taught to look forward to it as an event that would certainly take
place. We were affectionate playfellows during childhood, and, I
believe, dear and valued friends to one another as we grew older. But
as brother and sister often entertain a lively affection towards each
other without desiring a more intimate union, may not such also be our
case? Tell me, dearest Victor. Answer me, I conjure you by our mutual
happiness, with simple truth—Do you not love another? </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You have travelled; you have spent several years of your life at
Ingolstadt; and I confess to you, my friend, that when I saw you last
autumn so unhappy, flying to solitude from the society of every
creature, I could not help supposing that you might regret our
connection and believe yourself bound in honour to fulfil the wishes of
your parents, although they opposed themselves to your inclinations.
But this is false reasoning. I confess to you, my friend, that I love
you and that in my airy dreams of futurity you have been my constant
friend and companion. But it is your happiness I desire as well as my
own when I declare to you that our marriage would render me eternally
miserable unless it were the dictate of your own free choice. Even now
I weep to think that, borne down as you are by the cruellest
misfortunes, you may stifle, by the word _honour_, all hope of that
love and happiness which would alone restore you to yourself. I, who
have so disinterested an affection for you, may increase your miseries
tenfold by being an obstacle to your wishes. Ah! Victor, be assured
that your cousin and playmate has too sincere a love for you not to be
made miserable by this supposition. Be happy, my friend; and if you
obey me in this one request, remain satisfied that nothing on earth
will have the power to interrupt my tranquillity. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Do not let this letter disturb you; do not answer tomorrow, or the
next day, or even until you come, if it will give you pain. My uncle
will send me news of your health, and if I see but one smile on your
lips when we meet, occasioned by this or any other exertion of mine, I
shall need no other happiness. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This letter revived in my memory what I had before forgotten, the threat of
the fiend—“_I will be with you on your
wedding-night!_” Such was my sentence, and on that night would the
dæmon employ every art to destroy me and tear me from the glimpse of
happiness which promised partly to console my sufferings. On that night he
had determined to consummate his crimes by my death. Well, be it so; a
deadly struggle would then assuredly take place, in which if he were
victorious I should be at peace and his power over me be at an end. If he
were vanquished, I should be a free man. Alas! What freedom? Such as the
peasant enjoys when his family have been massacred before his eyes, his
cottage burnt, his lands laid waste, and he is turned adrift, homeless,
penniless, and alone, but free. Such would be my liberty except that in my
Elizabeth I possessed a treasure, alas, balanced by those horrors of
remorse and guilt which would pursue me until death. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Sweet and beloved Elizabeth! I read and reread her letter, and some
softened feelings stole into my heart and dared to whisper paradisiacal
dreams of love and joy; but the apple was already eaten, and the
angel’s arm bared to drive me from all hope. Yet I would die to make
her happy. If the monster executed his threat, death was inevitable; yet,
again, I considered whether my marriage would hasten my fate. My
destruction might indeed arrive a few months sooner, but if my torturer
should suspect that I postponed it, influenced by his menaces, he would
surely find other and perhaps more dreadful means of revenge. He had vowed
_to be with me on my wedding-night_, yet he did not consider that
threat as binding him to peace in the meantime, for as if to show me that
he was not yet satiated with blood, he had murdered Clerval immediately
after the enunciation of his threats. I resolved, therefore, that if my
immediate union with my cousin would conduce either to hers or my
father’s happiness, my adversary’s designs against my life
should not retard it a single hour. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In this state of mind I wrote to Elizabeth. My letter was calm and
affectionate. “I fear, my beloved girl,” I said, “little happiness
remains for us on earth; yet all that I may one day enjoy is centred in
you. Chase away your idle fears; to you alone do I consecrate my life
and my endeavours for contentment. I have one secret, Elizabeth, a
dreadful one; when revealed to you, it will chill your frame with
horror, and then, far from being surprised at my misery, you will only
wonder that I survive what I have endured. I will confide this tale of
misery and terror to you the day after our marriage shall take place,
for, my sweet cousin, there must be perfect confidence between us. But
until then, I conjure you, do not mention or allude to it. This I most
earnestly entreat, and I know you will comply.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In about a week after the arrival of Elizabeth’s letter we returned
to Geneva. The sweet girl welcomed me with warm affection, yet tears were
in her eyes as she beheld my emaciated frame and feverish cheeks. I saw a
change in her also. She was thinner and had lost much of that heavenly
vivacity that had before charmed me; but her gentleness and soft looks of
compassion made her a more fit companion for one blasted and miserable as I
was. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The tranquillity which I now enjoyed did not endure. Memory brought madness
with it, and when I thought of what had passed, a real insanity possessed
me; sometimes I was furious and burnt with rage, sometimes low and
despondent. I neither spoke nor looked at anyone, but sat motionless,
bewildered by the multitude of miseries that overcame me. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth alone had the power to draw me from these fits; her gentle voice
would soothe me when transported by passion and inspire me with human
feelings when sunk in torpor. She wept with me and for me. When reason
returned, she would remonstrate and endeavour to inspire me with
resignation. Ah! It is well for the unfortunate to be resigned, but for the
guilty there is no peace. The agonies of remorse poison the luxury there is
otherwise sometimes found in indulging the excess of grief. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “None on earth. I love Elizabeth and look forward to our union with
delight. Let the day therefore be fixed; and on it I will consecrate
myself, in life or death, to the happiness of my cousin.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My dear Victor, do not speak thus. Heavy misfortunes have befallen
us, but let us only cling closer to what remains and transfer our love
for those whom we have lost to those who yet live. Our circle will be
small but bound close by the ties of affection and mutual misfortune.
And when time shall have softened your despair, new and dear objects of
care will be born to replace those of whom we have been so cruelly
deprived.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Such were the lessons of my father. But to me the remembrance of the
threat returned; nor can you wonder that, omnipotent as the fiend had
yet been in his deeds of blood, I should almost regard him as
invincible, and that when he had pronounced the words “_I shall be with
you on your wedding-night_,” I should regard the threatened fate as
unavoidable. But death was no evil to me if the loss of Elizabeth were
balanced with it, and I therefore, with a contented and even cheerful
countenance, agreed with my father that if my cousin would consent, the
ceremony should take place in ten days, and thus put, as I imagined,
the seal to my fate. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Great God! If for one instant I had thought what might be the hellish
intention of my fiendish adversary, I would rather have banished myself
for ever from my native country and wandered a friendless outcast over
the earth than have consented to this miserable marriage. But, as if
possessed of magic powers, the monster had blinded me to his real
intentions; and when I thought that I had prepared only my own death, I
hastened that of a far dearer victim. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As the period fixed for our marriage drew nearer, whether from cowardice or
a prophetic feeling, I felt my heart sink within me. But I concealed my
feelings by an appearance of hilarity that brought smiles and joy to the
countenance of my father, but hardly deceived the ever-watchful and nicer
eye of Elizabeth. She looked forward to our union with placid contentment,
not unmingled with a little fear, which past misfortunes had impressed,
that what now appeared certain and tangible happiness might soon dissipate
into an airy dream and leave no trace but deep and everlasting regret. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Preparations were made for the event, congratulatory visits were received,
and all wore a smiling appearance. I shut up, as well as I could, in my own
heart the anxiety that preyed there and entered with seeming earnestness
into the plans of my father, although they might only serve as the
decorations of my tragedy. Through my father’s exertions a part of
the inheritance of Elizabeth had been restored to her by the Austrian
government. A small possession on the shores of Como belonged to her. It
was agreed that, immediately after our union, we should proceed to Villa
Lavenza and spend our first days of happiness beside the beautiful lake
near which it stood. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In the meantime I took every precaution to defend my person in case the
fiend should openly attack me. I carried pistols and a dagger
constantly about me and was ever on the watch to prevent artifice, and
by these means gained a greater degree of tranquillity. Indeed, as the
period approached, the threat appeared more as a delusion, not to be
regarded as worthy to disturb my peace, while the happiness I hoped for
in my marriage wore a greater appearance of certainty as the day fixed
for its solemnisation drew nearer and I heard it continually spoken of
as an occurrence which no accident could possibly prevent. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth seemed happy; my tranquil demeanour contributed greatly to
calm her mind. But on the day that was to fulfil my wishes and my
destiny, she was melancholy, and a presentiment of evil pervaded her;
and perhaps also she thought of the dreadful secret which I had
promised to reveal to her on the following day. My father was in the
meantime overjoyed, and, in the bustle of preparation, only recognised in
the melancholy of his niece the diffidence of a bride. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> After the ceremony was performed a large party assembled at my
father’s, but it was agreed that Elizabeth and I should commence our
journey by water, sleeping that night at Evian and continuing our
voyage on the following day. The day was fair, the wind favourable;
all smiled on our nuptial embarkation. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Those were the last moments of my life during which I enjoyed the
feeling of happiness. We passed rapidly along; the sun was hot, but we
were sheltered from its rays by a kind of canopy while we enjoyed the
beauty of the scene, sometimes on one side of the lake, where we saw
Mont Salêve, the pleasant banks of Montalègre, and at a distance,
surmounting all, the beautiful Mont Blanc, and the assemblage of snowy
mountains that in vain endeavour to emulate her; sometimes coasting the
opposite banks, we saw the mighty Jura opposing its dark side to the
ambition that would quit its native country, and an almost
insurmountable barrier to the invader who should wish to enslave it. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I took the hand of Elizabeth. “You are sorrowful, my love. Ah! If
you knew what I have suffered and what I may yet endure, you would
endeavour to let me taste the quiet and freedom from despair that this
one day at least permits me to enjoy.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Be happy, my dear Victor,” replied Elizabeth; “there is, I hope,
nothing to distress you; and be assured that if a lively joy is not
painted in my face, my heart is contented. Something whispers to me
not to depend too much on the prospect that is opened before us, but I
will not listen to such a sinister voice. Observe how fast we move
along and how the clouds, which sometimes obscure and sometimes rise
above the dome of Mont Blanc, render this scene of beauty still more
interesting. Look also at the innumerable fish that are swimming in
the clear waters, where we can distinguish every pebble that lies at
the bottom. What a divine day! How happy and serene all nature
appears!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Thus Elizabeth endeavoured to divert her thoughts and mine from all
reflection upon melancholy subjects. But her temper was fluctuating;
joy for a few instants shone in her eyes, but it continually gave place
to distraction and reverie. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The sun sank lower in the heavens; we passed the river Drance and
observed its path through the chasms of the higher and the glens of the
lower hills. The Alps here come closer to the lake, and we approached
the amphitheatre of mountains which forms its eastern boundary. The
spire of Evian shone under the woods that surrounded it and the range
of mountain above mountain by which it was overhung. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The wind, which had hitherto carried us along with amazing rapidity,
sank at sunset to a light breeze; the soft air just ruffled the water
and caused a pleasant motion among the trees as we approached the
shore, from which it wafted the most delightful scent of flowers and
hay. The sun sank beneath the horizon as we landed, and as I touched
the shore I felt those cares and fears revive which soon were to clasp
me and cling to me for ever. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was eight o’clock when we landed; we walked for a short time on the
shore, enjoying the transitory light, and then retired to the inn and
contemplated the lovely scene of waters, woods, and mountains, obscured
in darkness, yet still displaying their black outlines. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The wind, which had fallen in the south, now rose with great violence
in the west. The moon had reached her summit in the heavens and was
beginning to descend; the clouds swept across it swifter than the
flight of the vulture and dimmed her rays, while the lake reflected the
scene of the busy heavens, rendered still busier by the restless waves
that were beginning to rise. Suddenly a heavy storm of rain descended. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I had been calm during the day, but so soon as night obscured the
shapes of objects, a thousand fears arose in my mind. I was anxious
and watchful, while my right hand grasped a pistol which was hidden in
my bosom; every sound terrified me, but I resolved that I would sell my
life dearly and not shrink from the conflict until my own life or that
of my adversary was extinguished. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth observed my agitation for some time in timid and fearful silence,
but there was something in my glance which communicated terror to her, and
trembling, she asked, “What is it that agitates you, my dear Victor?
What is it you fear?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh! Peace, peace, my love,” replied I; “this night, and
all will be safe; but this night is dreadful, very dreadful.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I passed an hour in this state of mind, when suddenly I reflected how
fearful the combat which I momentarily expected would be to my wife,
and I earnestly entreated her to retire, resolving not to join her
until I had obtained some knowledge as to the situation of my enemy. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She left me, and I continued some time walking up and down the passages
of the house and inspecting every corner that might afford a retreat to
my adversary. But I discovered no trace of him and was beginning to
conjecture that some fortunate chance had intervened to prevent the
execution of his menaces when suddenly I heard a shrill and dreadful
scream. It came from the room into which Elizabeth had retired. As I
heard it, the whole truth rushed into my mind, my arms dropped, the
motion of every muscle and fibre was suspended; I could feel the blood
trickling in my veins and tingling in the extremities of my limbs. This
state lasted but for an instant; the scream was repeated, and I rushed
into the room. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Great God! Why did I not then expire! Why am I here to relate the
destruction of the best hope and the purest creature on earth? She was
there, lifeless and inanimate, thrown across the bed, her head hanging down
and her pale and distorted features half covered by her hair. Everywhere I
turn I see the same figure—her bloodless arms and relaxed form flung
by the murderer on its bridal bier. Could I behold this and live? Alas!
Life is obstinate and clings closest where it is most hated. For a moment
only did I lose recollection; I fell senseless on the ground. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When I recovered I found myself surrounded by the people of the inn; their
countenances expressed a breathless terror, but the horror of others
appeared only as a mockery, a shadow of the feelings that oppressed me. I
escaped from them to the room where lay the body of Elizabeth, my love, my
wife, so lately living, so dear, so worthy. She had been moved from the
posture in which I had first beheld her, and now, as she lay, her head upon
her arm and a handkerchief thrown across her face and neck, I might have
supposed her asleep. I rushed towards her and embraced her with ardour, but
the deadly languor and coldness of the limbs told me that what I now held
in my arms had ceased to be the Elizabeth whom I had loved and cherished.
The murderous mark of the fiend’s grasp was on her neck, and the
breath had ceased to issue from her lips. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> While I still hung over her in the agony of despair, I happened to look up.
The windows of the room had before been darkened, and I felt a kind of
panic on seeing the pale yellow light of the moon illuminate the chamber.
The shutters had been thrown back, and with a sensation of horror not to be
described, I saw at the open window a figure the most hideous and abhorred.
A grin was on the face of the monster; he seemed to jeer, as with his
fiendish finger he pointed towards the corpse of my wife. I rushed towards
the window, and drawing a pistol from my bosom, fired; but he eluded me,
leaped from his station, and running with the swiftness of lightning,
plunged into the lake. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The report of the pistol brought a crowd into the room. I pointed to
the spot where he had disappeared, and we followed the track with
boats; nets were cast, but in vain. After passing several hours, we
returned hopeless, most of my companions believing it to have been a
form conjured up by my fancy. After having landed, they proceeded to
search the country, parties going in different directions among the
woods and vines. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I attempted to accompany them and proceeded a short distance from the
house, but my head whirled round, my steps were like those of a drunken
man, I fell at last in a state of utter exhaustion; a film covered my
eyes, and my skin was parched with the heat of fever. In this state I
was carried back and placed on a bed, hardly conscious of what had
happened; my eyes wandered round the room as if to seek something that
I had lost. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> After an interval I arose, and as if by instinct, crawled into the room
where the corpse of my beloved lay. There were women weeping around; I
hung over it and joined my sad tears to theirs; all this time no
distinct idea presented itself to my mind, but my thoughts rambled to
various subjects, reflecting confusedly on my misfortunes and their
cause. I was bewildered, in a cloud of wonder and horror. The death
of William, the execution of Justine, the murder of Clerval, and lastly
of my wife; even at that moment I knew not that my only remaining
friends were safe from the malignity of the fiend; my father even now
might be writhing under his grasp, and Ernest might be dead at his
feet. This idea made me shudder and recalled me to action. I started
up and resolved to return to Geneva with all possible speed. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> There were no horses to be procured, and I must return by the lake; but the
wind was unfavourable, and the rain fell in torrents. However, it was
hardly morning, and I might reasonably hope to arrive by night. I hired men
to row and took an oar myself, for I had always experienced relief from
mental torment in bodily exercise. But the overflowing misery I now felt,
and the excess of agitation that I endured rendered me incapable of any
exertion. I threw down the oar, and leaning my head upon my hands, gave way
to every gloomy idea that arose. If I looked up, I saw scenes which were
familiar to me in my happier time and which I had contemplated but the day
before in the company of her who was now but a shadow and a recollection.
Tears streamed from my eyes. The rain had ceased for a moment, and I saw
the fish play in the waters as they had done a few hours before; they had
then been observed by Elizabeth. Nothing is so painful to the human mind as
a great and sudden change. The sun might shine or the clouds might lower,
but nothing could appear to me as it had done the day before. A fiend had
snatched from me every hope of future happiness; no creature had ever been
so miserable as I was; so frightful an event is single in the history of
man. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But why should I dwell upon the incidents that followed this last
overwhelming event? Mine has been a tale of horrors; I have reached their
_acme_, and what I must now relate can but be tedious to you. Know
that, one by one, my friends were snatched away; I was left desolate. My
own strength is exhausted, and I must tell, in a few words, what remains of
my hideous narration. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I arrived at Geneva. My father and Ernest yet lived, but the former sunk
under the tidings that I bore. I see him now, excellent and venerable old
man! His eyes wandered in vacancy, for they had lost their charm and their
delight—his Elizabeth, his more than daughter, whom he doted on with
all that affection which a man feels, who in the decline of life, having
few affections, clings more earnestly to those that remain. Cursed, cursed
be the fiend that brought misery on his grey hairs and doomed him to waste
in wretchedness! He could not live under the horrors that were accumulated
around him; the springs of existence suddenly gave way; he was unable to
rise from his bed, and in a few days he died in my arms. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> What then became of me? I know not; I lost sensation, and chains and
darkness were the only objects that pressed upon me. Sometimes,
indeed, I dreamt that I wandered in flowery meadows and pleasant vales
with the friends of my youth, but I awoke and found myself in a
dungeon. Melancholy followed, but by degrees I gained a clear
conception of my miseries and situation and was then released from my
prison. For they had called me mad, and during many months, as I
understood, a solitary cell had been my habitation. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Liberty, however, had been a useless gift to me, had I not, as I
awakened to reason, at the same time awakened to revenge. As the
memory of past misfortunes pressed upon me, I began to reflect on their
cause—the monster whom I had created, the miserable dæmon whom I had
sent abroad into the world for my destruction. I was possessed by a
maddening rage when I thought of him, and desired and ardently prayed
that I might have him within my grasp to wreak a great and signal
revenge on his cursed head. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Nor did my hate long confine itself to useless wishes; I began to
reflect on the best means of securing him; and for this purpose, about
a month after my release, I repaired to a criminal judge in the town
and told him that I had an accusation to make, that I knew the
destroyer of my family, and that I required him to exert his whole
authority for the apprehension of the murderer. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The magistrate listened to me with attention and kindness. “Be
assured, sir,” said he, “no pains or exertions on my part shall
be spared to discover the villain.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I thank you,” replied I; “listen, therefore, to the
deposition that I have to make. It is indeed a tale so strange that I
should fear you would not credit it were there not something in truth
which, however wonderful, forces conviction. The story is too connected to
be mistaken for a dream, and I have no motive for falsehood.” My
manner as I thus addressed him was impressive but calm; I had formed in my
own heart a resolution to pursue my destroyer to death, and this purpose
quieted my agony and for an interval reconciled me to life. I now related
my history briefly but with firmness and precision, marking the dates with
accuracy and never deviating into invective or exclamation. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The magistrate appeared at first perfectly incredulous, but as I continued
he became more attentive and interested; I saw him sometimes shudder with
horror; at others a lively surprise, unmingled with disbelief, was painted
on his countenance. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When I had concluded my narration, I said, “This is the being whom I
accuse and for whose seizure and punishment I call upon you to exert your
whole power. It is your duty as a magistrate, and I believe and hope that
your feelings as a man will not revolt from the execution of those
functions on this occasion.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This address caused a considerable change in the physiognomy of my own
auditor. He had heard my story with that half kind of belief that is given
to a tale of spirits and supernatural events; but when he was called upon
to act officially in consequence, the whole tide of his incredulity
returned. He, however, answered mildly, “I would willingly afford you
every aid in your pursuit, but the creature of whom you speak appears to
have powers which would put all my exertions to defiance. Who can follow an
animal which can traverse the sea of ice and inhabit caves and dens where
no man would venture to intrude? Besides, some months have elapsed since
the commission of his crimes, and no one can conjecture to what place he
has wandered or what region he may now inhabit.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I do not doubt that he hovers near the spot which I inhabit, and if
he has indeed taken refuge in the Alps, he may be hunted like the chamois
and destroyed as a beast of prey. But I perceive your thoughts; you do not
credit my narrative and do not intend to pursue my enemy with the
punishment which is his desert.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As I spoke, rage sparkled in my eyes; the magistrate was intimidated.
“You are mistaken,” said he. “I will exert myself, and if
it is in my power to seize the monster, be assured that he shall suffer
punishment proportionate to his crimes. But I fear, from what you have
yourself described to be his properties, that this will prove
impracticable; and thus, while every proper measure is pursued, you should
make up your mind to disappointment.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That cannot be; but all that I can say will be of little avail. My
revenge is of no moment to you; yet, while I allow it to be a vice, I
confess that it is the devouring and only passion of my soul. My rage
is unspeakable when I reflect that the murderer, whom I have turned
loose upon society, still exists. You refuse my just demand; I have
but one resource, and I devote myself, either in my life or death, to
his destruction.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I trembled with excess of agitation as I said this; there was a frenzy
in my manner, and something, I doubt not, of that haughty fierceness
which the martyrs of old are said to have possessed. But to a Genevan
magistrate, whose mind was occupied by far other ideas than those of
devotion and heroism, this elevation of mind had much the appearance of
madness. He endeavoured to soothe me as a nurse does a child and
reverted to my tale as the effects of delirium. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Man,” I cried, “how ignorant art thou in thy pride of
wisdom! Cease; you know not what it is you say.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> My present situation was one in which all voluntary thought was
swallowed up and lost. I was hurried away by fury; revenge alone
endowed me with strength and composure; it moulded my feelings and
allowed me to be calculating and calm at periods when otherwise
delirium or death would have been my portion. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> My first resolution was to quit Geneva for ever; my country, which, when I
was happy and beloved, was dear to me, now, in my adversity, became
hateful. I provided myself with a sum of money, together with a few jewels
which had belonged to my mother, and departed. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> And now my wanderings began which are to cease but with life. I have
traversed a vast portion of the earth and have endured all the hardships
which travellers in deserts and barbarous countries are wont to meet. How I
have lived I hardly know; many times have I stretched my failing limbs upon
the sandy plain and prayed for death. But revenge kept me alive; I dared
not die and leave my adversary in being. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When I quitted Geneva my first labour was to gain some clue by which I
might trace the steps of my fiendish enemy. But my plan was unsettled,
and I wandered many hours round the confines of the town, uncertain
what path I should pursue. As night approached I found myself at the
entrance of the cemetery where William, Elizabeth, and my father
reposed. I entered it and approached the tomb which marked their
graves. Everything was silent except the leaves of the trees, which
were gently agitated by the wind; the night was nearly dark, and the
scene would have been solemn and affecting even to an uninterested
observer. The spirits of the departed seemed to flit around and to
cast a shadow, which was felt but not seen, around the head of the
mourner. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The deep grief which this scene had at first excited quickly gave way to
rage and despair. They were dead, and I lived; their murderer also lived,
and to destroy him I must drag out my weary existence. I knelt on the grass
and kissed the earth and with quivering lips exclaimed, “By the
sacred earth on which I kneel, by the shades that wander near me, by the
deep and eternal grief that I feel, I swear; and by thee, O Night, and the
spirits that preside over thee, to pursue the dæmon who caused this misery,
until he or I shall perish in mortal conflict. For this purpose I will
preserve my life; to execute this dear revenge will I again behold the sun
and tread the green herbage of earth, which otherwise should vanish from my
eyes for ever. And I call on you, spirits of the dead, and on you, wandering
ministers of vengeance, to aid and conduct me in my work. Let the cursed
and hellish monster drink deep of agony; let him feel the despair that now
torments me.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I had begun my adjuration with solemnity and an awe which almost assured me
that the shades of my murdered friends heard and approved my devotion, but
the furies possessed me as I concluded, and rage choked my utterance. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I was answered through the stillness of night by a loud and fiendish
laugh. It rang on my ears long and heavily; the mountains re-echoed
it, and I felt as if all hell surrounded me with mockery and laughter.
Surely in that moment I should have been possessed by frenzy and have
destroyed my miserable existence but that my vow was heard and that I
was reserved for vengeance. The laughter died away, when a well-known
and abhorred voice, apparently close to my ear, addressed me in an
audible whisper, “I am satisfied, miserable wretch! You have
determined to live, and I am satisfied.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I darted towards the spot from which the sound proceeded, but the devil
eluded my grasp. Suddenly the broad disk of the moon arose and shone
full upon his ghastly and distorted shape as he fled with more than
mortal speed. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I pursued him, and for many months this has been my task. Guided by a
slight clue, I followed the windings of the Rhone, but vainly. The
blue Mediterranean appeared, and by a strange chance, I saw the fiend
enter by night and hide himself in a vessel bound for the Black Sea. I
took my passage in the same ship, but he escaped, I know not how. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Amidst the wilds of Tartary and Russia, although he still evaded me, I
have ever followed in his track. Sometimes the peasants, scared by
this horrid apparition, informed me of his path; sometimes he himself,
who feared that if I lost all trace of him I should despair and die,
left some mark to guide me. The snows descended on my head, and I saw
the print of his huge step on the white plain. To you first entering
on life, to whom care is new and agony unknown, how can you understand
what I have felt and still feel? Cold, want, and fatigue were the
least pains which I was destined to endure; I was cursed by some devil
and carried about with me my eternal hell; yet still a spirit of good
followed and directed my steps and when I most murmured would suddenly
extricate me from seemingly insurmountable difficulties. Sometimes,
when nature, overcome by hunger, sank under the exhaustion, a repast
was prepared for me in the desert that restored and inspirited me. The
fare was, indeed, coarse, such as the peasants of the country ate, but
I will not doubt that it was set there by the spirits that I had
invoked to aid me. Often, when all was dry, the heavens cloudless, and
I was parched by thirst, a slight cloud would bedim the sky, shed the
few drops that revived me, and vanish. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I followed, when I could, the courses of the rivers; but the dæmon
generally avoided these, as it was here that the population of the
country chiefly collected. In other places human beings were seldom
seen, and I generally subsisted on the wild animals that crossed my
path. I had money with me and gained the friendship of the villagers
by distributing it; or I brought with me some food that I had killed,
which, after taking a small part, I always presented to those who had
provided me with fire and utensils for cooking. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> My life, as it passed thus, was indeed hateful to me, and it was during
sleep alone that I could taste joy. O blessed sleep! Often, when most
miserable, I sank to repose, and my dreams lulled me even to rapture. The
spirits that guarded me had provided these moments, or rather hours, of
happiness that I might retain strength to fulfil my pilgrimage. Deprived of
this respite, I should have sunk under my hardships. During the day I was
sustained and inspirited by the hope of night, for in sleep I saw my
friends, my wife, and my beloved country; again I saw the benevolent
countenance of my father, heard the silver tones of my Elizabeth’s
voice, and beheld Clerval enjoying health and youth. Often, when wearied by
a toilsome march, I persuaded myself that I was dreaming until night should
come and that I should then enjoy reality in the arms of my dearest
friends. What agonising fondness did I feel for them! How did I cling to
their dear forms, as sometimes they haunted even my waking hours, and
persuade myself that they still lived! At such moments vengeance, that
burned within me, died in my heart, and I pursued my path towards the
destruction of the dæmon more as a task enjoined by heaven, as the
mechanical impulse of some power of which I was unconscious, than as the
ardent desire of my soul. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> What his feelings were whom I pursued I cannot know. Sometimes, indeed, he
left marks in writing on the barks of the trees or cut in stone that guided
me and instigated my fury. “My reign is not yet
over”—these words were legible in one of these
inscriptions—“you live, and my power is complete. Follow me; I
seek the everlasting ices of the north, where you will feel the misery of
cold and frost, to which I am impassive. You will find near this place, if
you follow not too tardily, a dead hare; eat and be refreshed. Come on, my
enemy; we have yet to wrestle for our lives, but many hard and miserable
hours must you endure until that period shall arrive.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Scoffing devil! Again do I vow vengeance; again do I devote thee,
miserable fiend, to torture and death. Never will I give up my search
until he or I perish; and then with what ecstasy shall I join my
Elizabeth and my departed friends, who even now prepare for me the
reward of my tedious toil and horrible pilgrimage! </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As I still pursued my journey to the northward, the snows thickened and the
cold increased in a degree almost too severe to support. The peasants were
shut up in their hovels, and only a few of the most hardy ventured forth to
seize the animals whom starvation had forced from their hiding-places to
seek for prey. The rivers were covered with ice, and no fish could be
procured; and thus I was cut off from my chief article of maintenance. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The triumph of my enemy increased with the difficulty of my labours. One
inscription that he left was in these words: “Prepare! Your toils
only begin; wrap yourself in furs and provide food, for we shall soon enter
upon a journey where your sufferings will satisfy my everlasting
hatred.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> My courage and perseverance were invigorated by these scoffing words; I
resolved not to fail in my purpose, and calling on Heaven to support
me, I continued with unabated fervour to traverse immense deserts,
until the ocean appeared at a distance and formed the utmost boundary
of the horizon. Oh! How unlike it was to the blue seasons of the
south! Covered with ice, it was only to be distinguished from land by
its superior wildness and ruggedness. The Greeks wept for joy when
they beheld the Mediterranean from the hills of Asia, and hailed with
rapture the boundary of their toils. I did not weep, but I knelt down
and with a full heart thanked my guiding spirit for conducting me in
safety to the place where I hoped, notwithstanding my adversary’s gibe,
to meet and grapple with him. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Some weeks before this period I had procured a sledge and dogs and thus
traversed the snows with inconceivable speed. I know not whether the
fiend possessed the same advantages, but I found that, as before I had
daily lost ground in the pursuit, I now gained on him, so much so that
when I first saw the ocean he was but one day’s journey in advance, and
I hoped to intercept him before he should reach the beach. With new
courage, therefore, I pressed on, and in two days arrived at a wretched
hamlet on the seashore. I inquired of the inhabitants concerning the
fiend and gained accurate information. A gigantic monster, they said,
had arrived the night before, armed with a gun and many pistols,
putting to flight the inhabitants of a solitary cottage through fear of
his terrific appearance. He had carried off their store of winter
food, and placing it in a sledge, to draw which he had seized on a
numerous drove of trained dogs, he had harnessed them, and the same
night, to the joy of the horror-struck villagers, had pursued his
journey across the sea in a direction that led to no land; and they
conjectured that he must speedily be destroyed by the breaking of the
ice or frozen by the eternal frosts. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> On hearing this information I suffered a temporary access of despair.
He had escaped me, and I must commence a destructive and almost endless
journey across the mountainous ices of the ocean, amidst cold that few
of the inhabitants could long endure and which I, the native of a
genial and sunny climate, could not hope to survive. Yet at the idea
that the fiend should live and be triumphant, my rage and vengeance
returned, and like a mighty tide, overwhelmed every other feeling.
After a slight repose, during which the spirits of the dead hovered
round and instigated me to toil and revenge, I prepared for my journey. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I exchanged my land-sledge for one fashioned for the inequalities of
the Frozen Ocean, and purchasing a plentiful stock of provisions, I
departed from land. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I cannot guess how many days have passed since then, but I have endured
misery which nothing but the eternal sentiment of a just retribution
burning within my heart could have enabled me to support. Immense and
rugged mountains of ice often barred up my passage, and I often heard
the thunder of the ground sea, which threatened my destruction. But
again the frost came and made the paths of the sea secure. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> By the quantity of provision which I had consumed, I should guess that
I had passed three weeks in this journey; and the continual protraction
of hope, returning back upon the heart, often wrung bitter drops of
despondency and grief from my eyes. Despair had indeed almost secured
her prey, and I should soon have sunk beneath this misery. Once, after
the poor animals that conveyed me had with incredible toil gained the
summit of a sloping ice mountain, and one, sinking under his fatigue,
died, I viewed the expanse before me with anguish, when suddenly my eye
caught a dark speck upon the dusky plain. I strained my sight to
discover what it could be and uttered a wild cry of ecstasy when I
distinguished a sledge and the distorted proportions of a well-known
form within. Oh! With what a burning gush did hope revisit my heart!
Warm tears filled my eyes, which I hastily wiped away, that they might
not intercept the view I had of the dæmon; but still my sight was
dimmed by the burning drops, until, giving way to the emotions that
oppressed me, I wept aloud. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But this was not the time for delay; I disencumbered the dogs of their
dead companion, gave them a plentiful portion of food, and after an
hour’s rest, which was absolutely necessary, and yet which was bitterly
irksome to me, I continued my route. The sledge was still visible, nor
did I again lose sight of it except at the moments when for a short
time some ice-rock concealed it with its intervening crags. I indeed
perceptibly gained on it, and when, after nearly two days’ journey, I
beheld my enemy at no more than a mile distant, my heart bounded within
me. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But now, when I appeared almost within grasp of my foe, my hopes were
suddenly extinguished, and I lost all trace of him more utterly than I had
ever done before. A ground sea was heard; the thunder of its progress, as
the waters rolled and swelled beneath me, became every moment more ominous
and terrific. I pressed on, but in vain. The wind arose; the sea roared;
and, as with the mighty shock of an earthquake, it split and cracked with a
tremendous and overwhelming sound. The work was soon finished; in a few
minutes a tumultuous sea rolled between me and my enemy, and I was left
drifting on a scattered piece of ice that was continually lessening and
thus preparing for me a hideous death. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In this manner many appalling hours passed; several of my dogs died, and I
myself was about to sink under the accumulation of distress when I saw your
vessel riding at anchor and holding forth to me hopes of succour and life.
I had no conception that vessels ever came so far north and was astounded
at the sight. I quickly destroyed part of my sledge to construct oars, and
by these means was enabled, with infinite fatigue, to move my ice raft in
the direction of your ship. I had determined, if you were going southwards,
still to trust myself to the mercy of the seas rather than abandon my
purpose. I hoped to induce you to grant me a boat with which I could pursue
my enemy. But your direction was northwards. You took me on board when my
vigour was exhausted, and I should soon have sunk under my multiplied
hardships into a death which I still dread, for my task is unfulfilled. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Oh! When will my guiding spirit, in conducting me to the dæmon, allow
me the rest I so much desire; or must I die, and he yet live? If I do,
swear to me, Walton, that he shall not escape, that you will seek him
and satisfy my vengeance in his death. And do I dare to ask of you to
undertake my pilgrimage, to endure the hardships that I have undergone?
No; I am not so selfish. Yet, when I am dead, if he should appear, if
the ministers of vengeance should conduct him to you, swear that he
shall not live—swear that he shall not triumph over my accumulated
woes and survive to add to the list of his dark crimes. He is eloquent
and persuasive, and once his words had even power over my heart; but
trust him not. His soul is as hellish as his form, full of treachery
and fiend-like malice. Hear him not; call on the names of William,
Justine, Clerval, Elizabeth, my father, and of the wretched Victor, and
thrust your sword into his heart. I will hover near and direct the
steel aright. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> You have read this strange and terrific story, Margaret; and do you not
feel your blood congeal with horror, like that which even now curdles
mine? Sometimes, seized with sudden agony, he could not continue his
tale; at others, his voice broken, yet piercing, uttered with
difficulty the words so replete with anguish. His fine and lovely eyes
were now lighted up with indignation, now subdued to downcast sorrow
and quenched in infinite wretchedness. Sometimes he commanded his
countenance and tones and related the most horrible incidents with a
tranquil voice, suppressing every mark of agitation; then, like a
volcano bursting forth, his face would suddenly change to an expression
of the wildest rage as he shrieked out imprecations on his persecutor. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> His tale is connected and told with an appearance of the simplest truth,
yet I own to you that the letters of Felix and Safie, which he showed me,
and the apparition of the monster seen from our ship, brought to me a
greater conviction of the truth of his narrative than his asseverations,
however earnest and connected. Such a monster has, then, really existence!
I cannot doubt it, yet I am lost in surprise and admiration. Sometimes I
endeavoured to gain from Frankenstein the particulars of his
creature’s formation, but on this point he was impenetrable. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Are you mad, my friend?” said he. “Or whither does your
senseless curiosity lead you? Would you also create for yourself and the
world a demoniacal enemy? Peace, peace! Learn my miseries and do not seek
to increase your own.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Frankenstein discovered that I made notes concerning his history; he asked
to see them and then himself corrected and augmented them in many places,
but principally in giving the life and spirit to the conversations he held
with his enemy. “Since you have preserved my narration,” said
he, “I would not that a mutilated one should go down to
posterity.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Thus has a week passed away, while I have listened to the strangest
tale that ever imagination formed. My thoughts and every feeling of my
soul have been drunk up by the interest for my guest which this tale
and his own elevated and gentle manners have created. I wish to soothe
him, yet can I counsel one so infinitely miserable, so destitute of
every hope of consolation, to live? Oh, no! The only joy that he can
now know will be when he composes his shattered spirit to peace and
death. Yet he enjoys one comfort, the offspring of solitude and
delirium; he believes that when in dreams he holds converse with his
friends and derives from that communion consolation for his miseries or
excitements to his vengeance, that they are not the creations of his
fancy, but the beings themselves who visit him from the regions of a
remote world. This faith gives a solemnity to his reveries that render
them to me almost as imposing and interesting as truth. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Our conversations are not always confined to his own history and
misfortunes. On every point of general literature he displays
unbounded knowledge and a quick and piercing apprehension. His
eloquence is forcible and touching; nor can I hear him, when he relates
a pathetic incident or endeavours to move the passions of pity or love,
without tears. What a glorious creature must he have been in the days
of his prosperity, when he is thus noble and godlike in ruin! He seems
to feel his own worth and the greatness of his fall. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “When younger,” said he, “I believed myself destined for
some great enterprise. My feelings are profound, but I possessed a coolness
of judgment that fitted me for illustrious achievements. This sentiment of
the worth of my nature supported me when others would have been oppressed,
for I deemed it criminal to throw away in useless grief those talents that
might be useful to my fellow creatures. When I reflected on the work I had
completed, no less a one than the creation of a sensitive and rational
animal, I could not rank myself with the herd of common projectors. But
this thought, which supported me in the commencement of my career, now
serves only to plunge me lower in the dust. All my speculations and hopes
are as nothing, and like the archangel who aspired to omnipotence, I am
chained in an eternal hell. My imagination was vivid, yet my powers of
analysis and application were intense; by the union of these qualities I
conceived the idea and executed the creation of a man. Even now I cannot
recollect without passion my reveries while the work was incomplete. I trod
heaven in my thoughts, now exulting in my powers, now burning with the idea
of their effects. From my infancy I was imbued with high hopes and a lofty
ambition; but how am I sunk! Oh! My friend, if you had known me as I once
was, you would not recognise me in this state of degradation. Despondency
rarely visited my heart; a high destiny seemed to bear me on, until I fell,
never, never again to rise.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Must I then lose this admirable being? I have longed for a friend; I have
sought one who would sympathise with and love me. Behold, on these desert
seas I have found such a one, but I fear I have gained him only to know his
value and lose him. I would reconcile him to life, but he repulses the idea. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I thank you, Walton,” he said, “for your kind intentions towards so
miserable a wretch; but when you speak of new ties and fresh
affections, think you that any can replace those who are gone? Can any
man be to me as Clerval was, or any woman another Elizabeth? Even
where the affections are not strongly moved by any superior excellence,
the companions of our childhood always possess a certain power over our
minds which hardly any later friend can obtain. They know our
infantine dispositions, which, however they may be afterwards modified,
are never eradicated; and they can judge of our actions with more
certain conclusions as to the integrity of our motives. A sister or a
brother can never, unless indeed such symptoms have been shown early,
suspect the other of fraud or false dealing, when another friend,
however strongly he may be attached, may, in spite of himself, be
contemplated with suspicion. But I enjoyed friends, dear not only
through habit and association, but from their own merits; and wherever
I am, the soothing voice of my Elizabeth and the conversation of
Clerval will be ever whispered in my ear. They are dead, and but one
feeling in such a solitude can persuade me to preserve my life. If I
were engaged in any high undertaking or design, fraught with extensive
utility to my fellow creatures, then could I live to fulfil it. But
such is not my destiny; I must pursue and destroy the being to whom I
gave existence; then my lot on earth will be fulfilled and I may die.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I write to you, encompassed by peril and ignorant whether I am ever
doomed to see again dear England and the dearer friends that inhabit
it. I am surrounded by mountains of ice which admit of no escape and
threaten every moment to crush my vessel. The brave fellows whom I
have persuaded to be my companions look towards me for aid, but I have
none to bestow. There is something terribly appalling in our
situation, yet my courage and hopes do not desert me. Yet it is
terrible to reflect that the lives of all these men are endangered
through me. If we are lost, my mad schemes are the cause. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> And what, Margaret, will be the state of your mind? You will not hear of my
destruction, and you will anxiously await my return. Years will pass, and
you will have visitings of despair and yet be tortured by hope. Oh! My
beloved sister, the sickening failing of your heart-felt expectations is,
in prospect, more terrible to me than my own death. But you have a husband
and lovely children; you may be happy. Heaven bless you and make you so! </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> My unfortunate guest regards me with the tenderest compassion. He
endeavours to fill me with hope and talks as if life were a possession
which he valued. He reminds me how often the same accidents have
happened to other navigators who have attempted this sea, and in spite
of myself, he fills me with cheerful auguries. Even the sailors feel
the power of his eloquence; when he speaks, they no longer despair; he
rouses their energies, and while they hear his voice they believe these
vast mountains of ice are mole-hills which will vanish before the
resolutions of man. These feelings are transitory; each day of
expectation delayed fills them with fear, and I almost dread a mutiny
caused by this despair. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> A scene has just passed of such uncommon interest that, although it is
highly probable that these papers may never reach you, yet I cannot
forbear recording it. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We are still surrounded by mountains of ice, still in imminent danger
of being crushed in their conflict. The cold is excessive, and many of
my unfortunate comrades have already found a grave amidst this scene of
desolation. Frankenstein has daily declined in health; a feverish fire
still glimmers in his eyes, but he is exhausted, and when suddenly
roused to any exertion, he speedily sinks again into apparent
lifelessness. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I mentioned in my last letter the fears I entertained of a mutiny.
This morning, as I sat watching the wan countenance of my friend—his
eyes half closed and his limbs hanging listlessly—I was roused by half
a dozen of the sailors, who demanded admission into the cabin. They
entered, and their leader addressed me. He told me that he and his
companions had been chosen by the other sailors to come in deputation
to me to make me a requisition which, in justice, I could not refuse.
We were immured in ice and should probably never escape, but they
feared that if, as was possible, the ice should dissipate and a free
passage be opened, I should be rash enough to continue my voyage and
lead them into fresh dangers, after they might happily have surmounted
this. They insisted, therefore, that I should engage with a solemn
promise that if the vessel should be freed I would instantly direct my
course southwards. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This speech troubled me. I had not despaired, nor had I yet conceived
the idea of returning if set free. Yet could I, in justice, or even in
possibility, refuse this demand? I hesitated before I answered, when
Frankenstein, who had at first been silent, and indeed appeared hardly
to have force enough to attend, now roused himself; his eyes sparkled,
and his cheeks flushed with momentary vigour. Turning towards the men,
he said, </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “What do you mean? What do you demand of your captain? Are you, then,
so easily turned from your design? Did you not call this a glorious
expedition? “And wherefore was it glorious? Not because the way was
smooth and placid as a southern sea, but because it was full of dangers and
terror, because at every new incident your fortitude was to be called forth
and your courage exhibited, because danger and death surrounded it, and
these you were to brave and overcome. For this was it a glorious, for this
was it an honourable undertaking. You were hereafter to be hailed as the
benefactors of your species, your names adored as belonging to brave men
who encountered death for honour and the benefit of mankind. And now,
behold, with the first imagination of danger, or, if you will, the first
mighty and terrific trial of your courage, you shrink away and are content
to be handed down as men who had not strength enough to endure cold and
peril; and so, poor souls, they were chilly and returned to their warm
firesides. Why, that requires not this preparation; ye need not have come
thus far and dragged your captain to the shame of a defeat merely to prove
yourselves cowards. Oh! Be men, or be more than men. Be steady to your
purposes and firm as a rock. This ice is not made of such stuff as your
hearts may be; it is mutable and cannot withstand you if you say that it
shall not. Do not return to your families with the stigma of disgrace
marked on your brows. Return as heroes who have fought and conquered and
who know not what it is to turn their backs on the foe.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He spoke this with a voice so modulated to the different feelings expressed
in his speech, with an eye so full of lofty design and heroism, that can
you wonder that these men were moved? They looked at one another and were
unable to reply. I spoke; I told them to retire and consider of what had
been said, that I would not lead them farther north if they strenuously
desired the contrary, but that I hoped that, with reflection, their courage
would return. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> How all this will terminate, I know not, but I had rather die than
return shamefully, my purpose unfulfilled. Yet I fear such will be my
fate; the men, unsupported by ideas of glory and honour, can never
willingly continue to endure their present hardships. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The die is cast; I have consented to return if we are not destroyed.
Thus are my hopes blasted by cowardice and indecision; I come back
ignorant and disappointed. It requires more philosophy than I possess
to bear this injustice with patience. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It is past; I am returning to England. I have lost my hopes of utility
and glory; I have lost my friend. But I will endeavour to detail these
bitter circumstances to you, my dear sister; and while I am wafted
towards England and towards you, I will not despond. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> September 9th, the ice began to move, and roarings like thunder were heard
at a distance as the islands split and cracked in every direction. We were
in the most imminent peril, but as we could only remain passive, my chief
attention was occupied by my unfortunate guest whose illness increased in
such a degree that he was entirely confined to his bed. The ice cracked
behind us and was driven with force towards the north; a breeze sprang from
the west, and on the 11th the passage towards the south became perfectly
free. When the sailors saw this and that their return to their native
country was apparently assured, a shout of tumultuous joy broke from them,
loud and long-continued. Frankenstein, who was dozing, awoke and asked the
cause of the tumult. “They shout,” I said, “because they
will soon return to England.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Do so, if you will; but I will not. You may give up your purpose, but
mine is assigned to me by Heaven, and I dare not. I am weak, but
surely the spirits who assist my vengeance will endow me with
sufficient strength.” Saying this, he endeavoured to spring from the
bed, but the exertion was too great for him; he fell back and fainted. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was long before he was restored, and I often thought that life was
entirely extinct. At length he opened his eyes; he breathed with
difficulty and was unable to speak. The surgeon gave him a composing
draught and ordered us to leave him undisturbed. In the meantime he
told me that my friend had certainly not many hours to live. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> His sentence was pronounced, and I could only grieve and be patient. I sat
by his bed, watching him; his eyes were closed, and I thought he slept; but
presently he called to me in a feeble voice, and bidding me come near,
said, “Alas! The strength I relied on is gone; I feel that I shall
soon die, and he, my enemy and persecutor, may still be in being. Think
not, Walton, that in the last moments of my existence I feel that burning
hatred and ardent desire of revenge I once expressed; but I feel myself
justified in desiring the death of my adversary. During these last days I
have been occupied in examining my past conduct; nor do I find it blamable.
In a fit of enthusiastic madness I created a rational creature and was
bound towards him to assure, as far as was in my power, his happiness and
well-being. This was my duty, but there was another still paramount to
that. My duties towards the beings of my own species had greater claims to
my attention because they included a greater proportion of happiness or
misery. Urged by this view, I refused, and I did right in refusing, to
create a companion for the first creature. He showed unparalleled malignity
and selfishness in evil; he destroyed my friends; he devoted to destruction
beings who possessed exquisite sensations, happiness, and wisdom; nor do I
know where this thirst for vengeance may end. Miserable himself that he may
render no other wretched, he ought to die. The task of his destruction was
mine, but I have failed. When actuated by selfish and vicious motives, I
asked you to undertake my unfinished work, and I renew this request now,
when I am only induced by reason and virtue. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yet I cannot ask you to renounce your country and friends to fulfil
this task; and now that you are returning to England, you will have
little chance of meeting with him. But the consideration of these
points, and the well balancing of what you may esteem your duties, I
leave to you; my judgment and ideas are already disturbed by the near
approach of death. I dare not ask you to do what I think right, for I
may still be misled by passion. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That he should live to be an instrument of mischief disturbs me; in
other respects, this hour, when I momentarily expect my release, is the
only happy one which I have enjoyed for several years. The forms of
the beloved dead flit before me, and I hasten to their arms. Farewell,
Walton! Seek happiness in tranquillity and avoid ambition, even if it
be only the apparently innocent one of distinguishing yourself in
science and discoveries. Yet why do I say this? I have myself been
blasted in these hopes, yet another may succeed.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> His voice became fainter as he spoke, and at length, exhausted by his
effort, he sank into silence. About half an hour afterwards he
attempted again to speak but was unable; he pressed my hand feebly, and
his eyes closed for ever, while the irradiation of a gentle smile passed
away from his lips. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Margaret, what comment can I make on the untimely extinction of this
glorious spirit? What can I say that will enable you to understand the
depth of my sorrow? All that I should express would be inadequate and
feeble. My tears flow; my mind is overshadowed by a cloud of
disappointment. But I journey towards England, and I may there find
consolation. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I am interrupted. What do these sounds portend? It is midnight; the
breeze blows fairly, and the watch on deck scarcely stir. Again there
is a sound as of a human voice, but hoarser; it comes from the cabin
where the remains of Frankenstein still lie. I must arise and examine.
Good night, my sister. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Great God! what a scene has just taken place! I am yet dizzy with the
remembrance of it. I hardly know whether I shall have the power to detail
it; yet the tale which I have recorded would be incomplete without this
final and wonderful catastrophe. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I entered the cabin where lay the remains of my ill-fated and admirable
friend. Over him hung a form which I cannot find words to
describe—gigantic in stature, yet uncouth and distorted in its
proportions. As he hung over the coffin, his face was concealed by long
locks of ragged hair; but one vast hand was extended, in colour and
apparent texture like that of a mummy. When he heard the sound of my
approach, he ceased to utter exclamations of grief and horror and sprung
towards the window. Never did I behold a vision so horrible as his face, of
such loathsome yet appalling hideousness. I shut my eyes involuntarily and
endeavoured to recollect what were my duties with regard to this destroyer.
I called on him to stay. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He paused, looking on me with wonder, and again turning towards the
lifeless form of his creator, he seemed to forget my presence, and
every feature and gesture seemed instigated by the wildest rage of some
uncontrollable passion. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That is also my victim!” he exclaimed. “In his murder my
crimes are consummated; the miserable series of my being is wound to its
close! Oh, Frankenstein! Generous and self-devoted being! What does it
avail that I now ask thee to pardon me? I, who irretrievably destroyed thee
by destroying all thou lovedst. Alas! He is cold, he cannot answer
me.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> His voice seemed suffocated, and my first impulses, which had suggested to
me the duty of obeying the dying request of my friend in destroying his
enemy, were now suspended by a mixture of curiosity and compassion. I
approached this tremendous being; I dared not again raise my eyes to his
face, there was something so scaring and unearthly in his ugliness. I
attempted to speak, but the words died away on my lips. The monster
continued to utter wild and incoherent self-reproaches. At length I
gathered resolution to address him in a pause of the tempest of his passion. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Your repentance,” I said, “is now superfluous. If you
had listened to the voice of conscience and heeded the stings of remorse
before you had urged your diabolical vengeance to this extremity,
Frankenstein would yet have lived.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And do you dream?” said the dæmon. “Do you think that I was then
dead to agony and remorse? He,” he continued, pointing to the corpse,
“he suffered not in the consummation of the deed. Oh! Not the
ten-thousandth portion of the anguish that was mine during the
lingering detail of its execution. A frightful selfishness hurried me
on, while my heart was poisoned with remorse. Think you that the
groans of Clerval were music to my ears? My heart was fashioned to be
susceptible of love and sympathy, and when wrenched by misery to vice
and hatred, it did not endure the violence of the change without
torture such as you cannot even imagine. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “After the murder of Clerval I returned to Switzerland, heart-broken
and overcome. I pitied Frankenstein; my pity amounted to horror; I
abhorred myself. But when I discovered that he, the author at once of
my existence and of its unspeakable torments, dared to hope for
happiness, that while he accumulated wretchedness and despair upon me
he sought his own enjoyment in feelings and passions from the
indulgence of which I was for ever barred, then impotent envy and bitter
indignation filled me with an insatiable thirst for vengeance. I
recollected my threat and resolved that it should be accomplished. I
knew that I was preparing for myself a deadly torture, but I was the
slave, not the master, of an impulse which I detested yet could not
disobey. Yet when she died! Nay, then I was not miserable. I had
cast off all feeling, subdued all anguish, to riot in the excess of my
despair. Evil thenceforth became my good. Urged thus far, I had no
choice but to adapt my nature to an element which I had willingly
chosen. The completion of my demoniacal design became an insatiable
passion. And now it is ended; there is my last victim!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I was at first touched by the expressions of his misery; yet, when I called
to mind what Frankenstein had said of his powers of eloquence and
persuasion, and when I again cast my eyes on the lifeless form of my
friend, indignation was rekindled within me. “Wretch!” I said.
“It is well that you come here to whine over the desolation that you
have made. You throw a torch into a pile of buildings, and when they are
consumed, you sit among the ruins and lament the fall. Hypocritical fiend!
If he whom you mourn still lived, still would he be the object, again would
he become the prey, of your accursed vengeance. It is not pity that you
feel; you lament only because the victim of your malignity is withdrawn
from your power.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, it is not thus—not thus,” interrupted the being.
“Yet such must be the impression conveyed to you by what appears to
be the purport of my actions. Yet I seek not a fellow feeling in my misery.
No sympathy may I ever find. When I first sought it, it was the love of
virtue, the feelings of happiness and affection with which my whole being
overflowed, that I wished to be participated. But now that virtue has
become to me a shadow, and that happiness and affection are turned into
bitter and loathing despair, in what should I seek for sympathy? I am
content to suffer alone while my sufferings shall endure; when I die, I am
well satisfied that abhorrence and opprobrium should load my memory. Once
my fancy was soothed with dreams of virtue, of fame, and of enjoyment. Once
I falsely hoped to meet with beings who, pardoning my outward form, would
love me for the excellent qualities which I was capable of unfolding. I was
nourished with high thoughts of honour and devotion. But now crime has
degraded me beneath the meanest animal. No guilt, no mischief, no
malignity, no misery, can be found comparable to mine. When I run over the
frightful catalogue of my sins, I cannot believe that I am the same
creature whose thoughts were once filled with sublime and transcendent
visions of the beauty and the majesty of goodness. But it is even so; the
fallen angel becomes a malignant devil. Yet even that enemy of God and man
had friends and associates in his desolation; I am alone. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You, who call Frankenstein your friend, seem to have a knowledge of my
crimes and his misfortunes. But in the detail which he gave you of them
he could not sum up the hours and months of misery which I endured
wasting in impotent passions. For while I destroyed his hopes, I did
not satisfy my own desires. They were for ever ardent and craving; still
I desired love and fellowship, and I was still spurned. Was there no
injustice in this? Am I to be thought the only criminal, when all
humankind sinned against me? Why do you not hate Felix, who drove his
friend from his door with contumely? Why do you not execrate the rustic
who sought to destroy the saviour of his child? Nay, these are virtuous
and immaculate beings! I, the miserable and the abandoned, am an
abortion, to be spurned at, and kicked, and trampled on. Even now my
blood boils at the recollection of this injustice. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But it is true that I am a wretch. I have murdered the lovely and
the helpless; I have strangled the innocent as they slept and grasped to
death his throat who never injured me or any other living thing. I have
devoted my creator, the select specimen of all that is worthy of love and
admiration among men, to misery; I have pursued him even to that
irremediable ruin. There he lies, white and cold in death. You hate me, but
your abhorrence cannot equal that with which I regard myself. I look on the
hands which executed the deed; I think on the heart in which the
imagination of it was conceived and long for the moment when these hands
will meet my eyes, when that imagination will haunt my thoughts no more. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Fear not that I shall be the instrument of future mischief. My work
is nearly complete. Neither yours nor any man’s death is needed to
consummate the series of my being and accomplish that which must be done,
but it requires my own. Do not think that I shall be slow to perform this
sacrifice. I shall quit your vessel on the ice raft which brought me
thither and shall seek the most northern extremity of the globe; I shall
collect my funeral pile and consume to ashes this miserable frame, that its
remains may afford no light to any curious and unhallowed wretch who would
create such another as I have been. I shall die. I shall no longer feel the
agonies which now consume me or be the prey of feelings unsatisfied, yet
unquenched. He is dead who called me into being; and when I shall be no
more, the very remembrance of us both will speedily vanish. I shall no
longer see the sun or stars or feel the winds play on my cheeks. Light,
feeling, and sense will pass away; and in this condition must I find my
happiness. Some years ago, when the images which this world affords first
opened upon me, when I felt the cheering warmth of summer and heard the
rustling of the leaves and the warbling of the birds, and these were all to
me, I should have wept to die; now it is my only consolation. Polluted by
crimes and torn by the bitterest remorse, where can I find rest but in
death? </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Farewell! I leave you, and in you the last of humankind whom these
eyes will ever behold. Farewell, Frankenstein! If thou wert yet alive
and yet cherished a desire of revenge against me, it would be better
satiated in my life than in my destruction. But it was not so; thou
didst seek my extinction, that I might not cause greater wretchedness;
and if yet, in some mode unknown to me, thou hadst not ceased to think
and feel, thou wouldst not desire against me a vengeance greater than
that which I feel. Blasted as thou wert, my agony was still superior to
thine, for the bitter sting of remorse will not cease to rankle in my
wounds until death shall close them for ever. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But soon,” he cried with sad and solemn enthusiasm, “I
shall die, and what I now feel be no longer felt. Soon these burning
miseries will be extinct. I shall ascend my funeral pile triumphantly and
exult in the agony of the torturing flames. The light of that conflagration
will fade away; my ashes will be swept into the sea by the winds. My spirit
will sleep in peace, or if it thinks, it will not surely think thus.
Farewell.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He sprang from the cabin-window as he said this, upon the ice raft
which lay close to the vessel. He was soon borne away by the waves and
lost in darkness and distance. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> 
To Sherlock Holmes she is always _the_ woman. I have seldom heard him
mention her under any other name. In his eyes she eclipses and
predominates the whole of her sex. It was not that he felt any emotion
akin to love for Irene Adler. All emotions, and that one particularly,
were abhorrent to his cold, precise but admirably balanced mind. He
was, I take it, the most perfect reasoning and observing machine that
the world has seen, but as a lover he would have placed himself in a
false position. He never spoke of the softer passions, save with a gibe
and a sneer. They were admirable things for the observer—excellent for
drawing the veil from men’s motives and actions. But for the trained
reasoner to admit such intrusions into his own delicate and finely
adjusted temperament was to introduce a distracting factor which might
throw a doubt upon all his mental results. Grit in a sensitive
instrument, or a crack in one of his own high-power lenses, would not
be more disturbing than a strong emotion in a nature such as his. And
yet there was but one woman to him, and that woman was the late Irene
Adler, of dubious and questionable memory. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I had seen little of Holmes lately. My marriage had drifted us away
from each other. My own complete happiness, and the home-centred
interests which rise up around the man who first finds himself master
of his own establishment, were sufficient to absorb all my attention,
while Holmes, who loathed every form of society with his whole Bohemian
soul, remained in our lodgings in Baker Street, buried among his old
books, and alternating from week to week between cocaine and ambition,
the drowsiness of the drug, and the fierce energy of his own keen
nature. He was still, as ever, deeply attracted by the study of crime,
and occupied his immense faculties and extraordinary powers of
observation in following out those clues, and clearing up those
mysteries which had been abandoned as hopeless by the official police.
From time to time I heard some vague account of his doings: of his
summons to Odessa in the case of the Trepoff murder, of his clearing up
of the singular tragedy of the Atkinson brothers at Trincomalee, and
finally of the mission which he had accomplished so delicately and
successfully for the reigning family of Holland. Beyond these signs of
his activity, however, which I merely shared with all the readers of
the daily press, I knew little of my former friend and companion. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> One night—it was on the twentieth of March, 1888—I was returning from a
journey to a patient (for I had now returned to civil practice), when
my way led me through Baker Street. As I passed the well-remembered
door, which must always be associated in my mind with my wooing, and
with the dark incidents of the Study in Scarlet, I was seized with a
keen desire to see Holmes again, and to know how he was employing his
extraordinary powers. His rooms were brilliantly lit, and, even as I
looked up, I saw his tall, spare figure pass twice in a dark silhouette
against the blind. He was pacing the room swiftly, eagerly, with his
head sunk upon his chest and his hands clasped behind him. To me, who
knew his every mood and habit, his attitude and manner told their own
story. He was at work again. He had risen out of his drug-created
dreams and was hot upon the scent of some new problem. I rang the bell
and was shown up to the chamber which had formerly been in part my own. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> His manner was not effusive. It seldom was; but he was glad, I think,
to see me. With hardly a word spoken, but with a kindly eye, he waved
me to an armchair, threw across his case of cigars, and indicated a
spirit case and a gasogene in the corner. Then he stood before the fire
and looked me over in his singular introspective fashion. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Wedlock suits you,” he remarked. “I think, Watson, that you have put
on seven and a half pounds since I saw you.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Indeed, I should have thought a little more. Just a trifle more, I
fancy, Watson. And in practice again, I observe. You did not tell me
that you intended to go into harness.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I see it, I deduce it. How do I know that you have been getting
yourself very wet lately, and that you have a most clumsy and careless
servant girl?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My dear Holmes,” said I, “this is too much. You would certainly have
been burned, had you lived a few centuries ago. It is true that I had a
country walk on Thursday and came home in a dreadful mess, but as I
have changed my clothes I can’t imagine how you deduce it. As to Mary
Jane, she is incorrigible, and my wife has given her notice, but there,
again, I fail to see how you work it out.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is simplicity itself,” said he; “my eyes tell me that on the inside
of your left shoe, just where the firelight strikes it, the leather is
scored by six almost parallel cuts. Obviously they have been caused by
someone who has very carelessly scraped round the edges of the sole in
order to remove crusted mud from it. Hence, you see, my double
deduction that you had been out in vile weather, and that you had a
particularly malignant boot-slitting specimen of the London slavey. As
to your practice, if a gentleman walks into my rooms smelling of
iodoform, with a black mark of nitrate of silver upon his right
forefinger, and a bulge on the right side of his top-hat to show where
he has secreted his stethoscope, I must be dull, indeed, if I do not
pronounce him to be an active member of the medical profession.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I could not help laughing at the ease with which he explained his
process of deduction. “When I hear you give your reasons,” I remarked,
“the thing always appears to me to be so ridiculously simple that I
could easily do it myself, though at each successive instance of your
reasoning I am baffled until you explain your process. And yet I
believe that my eyes are as good as yours.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Quite so,” he answered, lighting a cigarette, and throwing himself
down into an armchair. “You see, but you do not observe. The
distinction is clear. For example, you have frequently seen the steps
which lead up from the hall to this room.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Quite so! You have not observed. And yet you have seen. That is just
my point. Now, I know that there are seventeen steps, because I have
both seen and observed. By the way, since you are interested in these
little problems, and since you are good enough to chronicle one or two
of my trifling experiences, you may be interested in this.” He threw
over a sheet of thick, pink-tinted notepaper which had been lying open
upon the table. “It came by the last post,” said he. “Read it aloud.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “There will call upon you to-night, at a quarter to eight o’clock,” it
said, “a gentleman who desires to consult you upon a matter of the very
deepest moment. Your recent services to one of the royal houses of
Europe have shown that you are one who may safely be trusted with
matters which are of an importance which can hardly be exaggerated.
This account of you we have from all quarters received. Be in your
chamber then at that hour, and do not take it amiss if your visitor
wear a mask.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have no data yet. It is a capital mistake to theorise before one has
data. Insensibly one begins to twist facts to suit theories, instead of
theories to suit facts. But the note itself. What do you deduce from
it?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The man who wrote it was presumably well to do,” I remarked,
endeavouring to imitate my companion’s processes. “Such paper could not
be bought under half a crown a packet. It is peculiarly strong and
stiff.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Peculiar—that is the very word,” said Holmes. “It is not an English
paper at all. Hold it up to the light.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I did so, and saw a large “E” with a small “g,” a “P,” and a large “G”
with a small “t” woven into the texture of the paper. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Not at all. The ‘G’ with the small ‘t’ stands for ‘Gesellschaft,’
which is the German for ‘Company.’ It is a customary contraction like
our ‘Co.’ ‘P,’ of course, stands for ‘Papier.’ Now for the ‘Eg.’ Let us
glance at our Continental Gazetteer.” He took down a heavy brown volume
from his shelves. “Eglow, Eglonitz—here we are, Egria. It is in a
German-speaking country—in Bohemia, not far from Carlsbad. ‘Remarkable
as being the scene of the death of Wallenstein, and for its numerous
glass-factories and paper-mills.’ Ha, ha, my boy, what do you make of
that?” His eyes sparkled, and he sent up a great blue triumphant cloud
from his cigarette. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Precisely. And the man who wrote the note is a German. Do you note the
peculiar construction of the sentence—‘This account of you we have from
all quarters received.’ A Frenchman or Russian could not have written
that. It is the German who is so uncourteous to his verbs. It only
remains, therefore, to discover what is wanted by this German who
writes upon Bohemian paper and prefers wearing a mask to showing his
face. And here he comes, if I am not mistaken, to resolve all our
doubts.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As he spoke there was the sharp sound of horses’ hoofs and grating
wheels against the curb, followed by a sharp pull at the bell. Holmes
whistled. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “A pair, by the sound,” said he. “Yes,” he continued, glancing out of
the window. “A nice little brougham and a pair of beauties. A hundred
and fifty guineas apiece. There’s money in this case, Watson, if there
is nothing else.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Not a bit, Doctor. Stay where you are. I am lost without my Boswell.
And this promises to be interesting. It would be a pity to miss it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Never mind him. I may want your help, and so may he. Here he comes.
Sit down in that armchair, Doctor, and give us your best attention.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> A slow and heavy step, which had been heard upon the stairs and in the
passage, paused immediately outside the door. Then there was a loud and
authoritative tap. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> A man entered who could hardly have been less than six feet six inches
in height, with the chest and limbs of a Hercules. His dress was rich
with a richness which would, in England, be looked upon as akin to bad
taste. Heavy bands of astrakhan were slashed across the sleeves and
fronts of his double-breasted coat, while the deep blue cloak which was
thrown over his shoulders was lined with flame-coloured silk and
secured at the neck with a brooch which consisted of a single flaming
beryl. Boots which extended halfway up his calves, and which were
trimmed at the tops with rich brown fur, completed the impression of
barbaric opulence which was suggested by his whole appearance. He
carried a broad-brimmed hat in his hand, while he wore across the upper
part of his face, extending down past the cheekbones, a black vizard
mask, which he had apparently adjusted that very moment, for his hand
was still raised to it as he entered. From the lower part of the face
he appeared to be a man of strong character, with a thick, hanging lip,
and a long, straight chin suggestive of resolution pushed to the length
of obstinacy. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You had my note?” he asked with a deep harsh voice and a strongly
marked German accent. “I told you that I would call.” He looked from
one to the other of us, as if uncertain which to address. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Pray take a seat,” said Holmes. “This is my friend and colleague, Dr.
Watson, who is occasionally good enough to help me in my cases. Whom
have I the honour to address?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You may address me as the Count Von Kramm, a Bohemian nobleman. I
understand that this gentleman, your friend, is a man of honour and
discretion, whom I may trust with a matter of the most extreme
importance. If not, I should much prefer to communicate with you
alone.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I rose to go, but Holmes caught me by the wrist and pushed me back into
my chair. “It is both, or none,” said he. “You may say before this
gentleman anything which you may say to me.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Count shrugged his broad shoulders. “Then I must begin,” said he,
“by binding you both to absolute secrecy for two years; at the end of
that time the matter will be of no importance. At present it is not too
much to say that it is of such weight it may have an influence upon
European history.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You will excuse this mask,” continued our strange visitor. “The august
person who employs me wishes his agent to be unknown to you, and I may
confess at once that the title by which I have just called myself is
not exactly my own.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The circumstances are of great delicacy, and every precaution has to
be taken to quench what might grow to be an immense scandal and
seriously compromise one of the reigning families of Europe. To speak
plainly, the matter implicates the great House of Ormstein, hereditary
kings of Bohemia.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Our visitor glanced with some apparent surprise at the languid,
lounging figure of the man who had been no doubt depicted to him as the
most incisive reasoner and most energetic agent in Europe. Holmes
slowly reopened his eyes and looked impatiently at his gigantic client. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The man sprang from his chair and paced up and down the room in
uncontrollable agitation. Then, with a gesture of desperation, he tore
the mask from his face and hurled it upon the ground. “You are right,”
he cried; “I am the King. Why should I attempt to conceal it?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Why, indeed?” murmured Holmes. “Your Majesty had not spoken before I
was aware that I was addressing Wilhelm Gottsreich Sigismond von
Ormstein, Grand Duke of Cassel-Felstein, and hereditary King of
Bohemia.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But you can understand,” said our strange visitor, sitting down once
more and passing his hand over his high white forehead, “you can
understand that I am not accustomed to doing such business in my own
person. Yet the matter was so delicate that I could not confide it to
an agent without putting myself in his power. I have come _incognito_
from Prague for the purpose of consulting you.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The facts are briefly these: Some five years ago, during a lengthy
visit to Warsaw, I made the acquaintance of the well-known adventuress,
Irene Adler. The name is no doubt familiar to you.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Kindly look her up in my index, Doctor,” murmured Holmes without
opening his eyes. For many years he had adopted a system of docketing
all paragraphs concerning men and things, so that it was difficult to
name a subject or a person on which he could not at once furnish
information. In this case I found her biography sandwiched in between
that of a Hebrew rabbi and that of a staff-commander who had written a
monograph upon the deep-sea fishes. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Let me see!” said Holmes. “Hum! Born in New Jersey in the year 1858.
Contralto—hum! La Scala, hum! Prima donna Imperial Opera of Warsaw—yes!
Retired from operatic stage—ha! Living in London—quite so! Your
Majesty, as I understand, became entangled with this young person,
wrote her some compromising letters, and is now desirous of getting
those letters back.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Then I fail to follow your Majesty. If this young person should
produce her letters for blackmailing or other purposes, how is she to
prove their authenticity?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Five attempts have been made. Twice burglars in my pay ransacked her
house. Once we diverted her luggage when she travelled. Twice she has
been waylaid. There has been no result.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “To Clotilde Lothman von Saxe-Meningen, second daughter of the King of
Scandinavia. You may know the strict principles of her family. She is
herself the very soul of delicacy. A shadow of a doubt as to my conduct
would bring the matter to an end.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Threatens to send them the photograph. And she will do it. I know that
she will do it. You do not know her, but she has a soul of steel. She
has the face of the most beautiful of women, and the mind of the most
resolute of men. Rather than I should marry another woman, there are no
lengths to which she would not go—none.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Because she has said that she would send it on the day when the
betrothal was publicly proclaimed. That will be next Monday.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, then we have three days yet,” said Holmes with a yawn. “That is
very fortunate, as I have one or two matters of importance to look into
just at present. Your Majesty will, of course, stay in London for the
present?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Then, good-night, your Majesty, and I trust that we shall soon have
some good news for you. And good-night, Watson,” he added, as the
wheels of the royal brougham rolled down the street. “If you will be
good enough to call to-morrow afternoon at three o’clock I should like
to chat this little matter over with you.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> At three o’clock precisely I was at Baker Street, but Holmes had not
yet returned. The landlady informed me that he had left the house
shortly after eight o’clock in the morning. I sat down beside the fire,
however, with the intention of awaiting him, however long he might be.
I was already deeply interested in his inquiry, for, though it was
surrounded by none of the grim and strange features which were
associated with the two crimes which I have already recorded, still,
the nature of the case and the exalted station of his client gave it a
character of its own. Indeed, apart from the nature of the
investigation which my friend had on hand, there was something in his
masterly grasp of a situation, and his keen, incisive reasoning, which
made it a pleasure to me to study his system of work, and to follow the
quick, subtle methods by which he disentangled the most inextricable
mysteries. So accustomed was I to his invariable success that the very
possibility of his failing had ceased to enter into my head. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was close upon four before the door opened, and a drunken-looking
groom, ill-kempt and side-whiskered, with an inflamed face and
disreputable clothes, walked into the room. Accustomed as I was to my
friend’s amazing powers in the use of disguises, I had to look three
times before I was certain that it was indeed he. With a nod he
vanished into the bedroom, whence he emerged in five minutes
tweed-suited and respectable, as of old. Putting his hands into his
pockets, he stretched out his legs in front of the fire and laughed
heartily for some minutes. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, really!” he cried, and then he choked and laughed again until he
was obliged to lie back, limp and helpless, in the chair. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It’s quite too funny. I am sure you could never guess how I employed
my morning, or what I ended by doing.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Quite so; but the sequel was rather unusual. I will tell you, however.
I left the house a little after eight o’clock this morning in the
character of a groom out of work. There is a wonderful sympathy and
freemasonry among horsey men. Be one of them, and you will know all
that there is to know. I soon found Briony Lodge. It is a _bijou_
villa, with a garden at the back, but built out in front right up to
the road, two stories. Chubb lock to the door. Large sitting-room on
the right side, well furnished, with long windows almost to the floor,
and those preposterous English window fasteners which a child could
open. Behind there was nothing remarkable, save that the passage window
could be reached from the top of the coach-house. I walked round it and
examined it closely from every point of view, but without noting
anything else of interest. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I then lounged down the street and found, as I expected, that there
was a mews in a lane which runs down by one wall of the garden. I lent
the ostlers a hand in rubbing down their horses, and received in
exchange twopence, a glass of half-and-half, two fills of shag tobacco,
and as much information as I could desire about Miss Adler, to say
nothing of half a dozen other people in the neighbourhood in whom I was
not in the least interested, but whose biographies I was compelled to
listen to.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, she has turned all the men’s heads down in that part. She is the
daintiest thing under a bonnet on this planet. So say the
Serpentine-mews, to a man. She lives quietly, sings at concerts, drives
out at five every day, and returns at seven sharp for dinner. Seldom
goes out at other times, except when she sings. Has only one male
visitor, but a good deal of him. He is dark, handsome, and dashing,
never calls less than once a day, and often twice. He is a Mr. Godfrey
Norton, of the Inner Temple. See the advantages of a cabman as a
confidant. They had driven him home a dozen times from Serpentine-mews,
and knew all about him. When I had listened to all they had to tell, I
began to walk up and down near Briony Lodge once more, and to think
over my plan of campaign. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This Godfrey Norton was evidently an important factor in the matter.
He was a lawyer. That sounded ominous. What was the relation between
them, and what the object of his repeated visits? Was she his client,
his friend, or his mistress? If the former, she had probably
transferred the photograph to his keeping. If the latter, it was less
likely. On the issue of this question depended whether I should
continue my work at Briony Lodge, or turn my attention to the
gentleman’s chambers in the Temple. It was a delicate point, and it
widened the field of my inquiry. I fear that I bore you with these
details, but I have to let you see my little difficulties, if you are
to understand the situation.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I was still balancing the matter in my mind when a hansom cab drove up
to Briony Lodge, and a gentleman sprang out. He was a remarkably
handsome man, dark, aquiline, and moustached—evidently the man of whom
I had heard. He appeared to be in a great hurry, shouted to the cabman
to wait, and brushed past the maid who opened the door with the air of
a man who was thoroughly at home. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He was in the house about half an hour, and I could catch glimpses of
him in the windows of the sitting-room, pacing up and down, talking
excitedly, and waving his arms. Of her I could see nothing. Presently
he emerged, looking even more flurried than before. As he stepped up to
the cab, he pulled a gold watch from his pocket and looked at it
earnestly, ‘Drive like the devil,’ he shouted, ‘first to Gross &
Hankey’s in Regent Street, and then to the Church of St. Monica in the
Edgeware Road. Half a guinea if you do it in twenty minutes!’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Away they went, and I was just wondering whether I should not do well
to follow them when up the lane came a neat little landau, the coachman
with his coat only half-buttoned, and his tie under his ear, while all
the tags of his harness were sticking out of the buckles. It hadn’t
pulled up before she shot out of the hall door and into it. I only
caught a glimpse of her at the moment, but she was a lovely woman, with
a face that a man might die for. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This was quite too good to lose, Watson. I was just balancing whether
I should run for it, or whether I should perch behind her landau when a
cab came through the street. The driver looked twice at such a shabby
fare, but I jumped in before he could object. ‘The Church of St.
Monica,’ said I, ‘and half a sovereign if you reach it in twenty
minutes.’ It was twenty-five minutes to twelve, and of course it was
clear enough what was in the wind. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My cabby drove fast. I don’t think I ever drove faster, but the others
were there before us. The cab and the landau with their steaming horses
were in front of the door when I arrived. I paid the man and hurried
into the church. There was not a soul there save the two whom I had
followed and a surpliced clergyman, who seemed to be expostulating with
them. They were all three standing in a knot in front of the altar. I
lounged up the side aisle like any other idler who has dropped into a
church. Suddenly, to my surprise, the three at the altar faced round to
me, and Godfrey Norton came running as hard as he could towards me. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I was half-dragged up to the altar, and before I knew where I was I
found myself mumbling responses which were whispered in my ear, and
vouching for things of which I knew nothing, and generally assisting in
the secure tying up of Irene Adler, spinster, to Godfrey Norton,
bachelor. It was all done in an instant, and there was the gentleman
thanking me on the one side and the lady on the other, while the
clergyman beamed on me in front. It was the most preposterous position
in which I ever found myself in my life, and it was the thought of it
that started me laughing just now. It seems that there had been some
informality about their license, that the clergyman absolutely refused
to marry them without a witness of some sort, and that my lucky
appearance saved the bridegroom from having to sally out into the
streets in search of a best man. The bride gave me a sovereign, and I
mean to wear it on my watch chain in memory of the occasion.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, I found my plans very seriously menaced. It looked as if the
pair might take an immediate departure, and so necessitate very prompt
and energetic measures on my part. At the church door, however, they
separated, he driving back to the Temple, and she to her own house. ‘I
shall drive out in the park at five as usual,’ she said as she left
him. I heard no more. They drove away in different directions, and I
went off to make my own arrangements.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Some cold beef and a glass of beer,” he answered, ringing the bell. “I
have been too busy to think of food, and I am likely to be busier still
this evening. By the way, Doctor, I shall want your co-operation.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “When Mrs. Turner has brought in the tray I will make it clear to you.
Now,” he said as he turned hungrily on the simple fare that our
landlady had provided, “I must discuss it while I eat, for I have not
much time. It is nearly five now. In two hours we must be on the scene
of action. Miss Irene, or Madame, rather, returns from her drive at
seven. We must be at Briony Lodge to meet her.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You must leave that to me. I have already arranged what is to occur.
There is only one point on which I must insist. You must not interfere,
come what may. You understand?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “To do nothing whatever. There will probably be some small
unpleasantness. Do not join in it. It will end in my being conveyed
into the house. Four or five minutes afterwards the sitting-room window
will open. You are to station yourself close to that open window.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And when I raise my hand—so—you will throw into the room what I give
you to throw, and will, at the same time, raise the cry of fire. You
quite follow me?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is nothing very formidable,” he said, taking a long cigar-shaped
roll from his pocket. “It is an ordinary plumber’s smoke-rocket, fitted
with a cap at either end to make it self-lighting. Your task is
confined to that. When you raise your cry of fire, it will be taken up
by quite a number of people. You may then walk to the end of the
street, and I will rejoin you in ten minutes. I hope that I have made
myself clear?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am to remain neutral, to get near the window, to watch you, and at
the signal to throw in this object, then to raise the cry of fire, and
to wait you at the corner of the street.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That is excellent. I think, perhaps, it is almost time that I prepare
for the new role I have to play.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He disappeared into his bedroom and returned in a few minutes in the
character of an amiable and simple-minded Nonconformist clergyman. His
broad black hat, his baggy trousers, his white tie, his sympathetic
smile, and general look of peering and benevolent curiosity were such
as Mr. John Hare alone could have equalled. It was not merely that
Holmes changed his costume. His expression, his manner, his very soul
seemed to vary with every fresh part that he assumed. The stage lost a
fine actor, even as science lost an acute reasoner, when he became a
specialist in crime. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was a quarter past six when we left Baker Street, and it still
wanted ten minutes to the hour when we found ourselves in Serpentine
Avenue. It was already dusk, and the lamps were just being lighted as
we paced up and down in front of Briony Lodge, waiting for the coming
of its occupant. The house was just such as I had pictured it from
Sherlock Holmes’ succinct description, but the locality appeared to be
less private than I expected. On the contrary, for a small street in a
quiet neighbourhood, it was remarkably animated. There was a group of
shabbily dressed men smoking and laughing in a corner, a
scissors-grinder with his wheel, two guardsmen who were flirting with a
nurse-girl, and several well-dressed young men who were lounging up and
down with cigars in their mouths. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You see,” remarked Holmes, as we paced to and fro in front of the
house, “this marriage rather simplifies matters. The photograph becomes
a double-edged weapon now. The chances are that she would be as averse
to its being seen by Mr. Godfrey Norton, as our client is to its coming
to the eyes of his princess. Now the question is, Where are we to find
the photograph?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is most unlikely that she carries it about with her. It is cabinet
size. Too large for easy concealment about a woman’s dress. She knows
that the King is capable of having her waylaid and searched. Two
attempts of the sort have already been made. We may take it, then, that
she does not carry it about with her.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Her banker or her lawyer. There is that double possibility. But I am
inclined to think neither. Women are naturally secretive, and they like
to do their own secreting. Why should she hand it over to anyone else?
She could trust her own guardianship, but she could not tell what
indirect or political influence might be brought to bear upon a
business man. Besides, remember that she had resolved to use it within
a few days. It must be where she can lay her hands upon it. It must be
in her own house.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “She will not be able to. But I hear the rumble of wheels. It is her
carriage. Now carry out my orders to the letter.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As he spoke the gleam of the sidelights of a carriage came round the
curve of the avenue. It was a smart little landau which rattled up to
the door of Briony Lodge. As it pulled up, one of the loafing men at
the corner dashed forward to open the door in the hope of earning a
copper, but was elbowed away by another loafer, who had rushed up with
the same intention. A fierce quarrel broke out, which was increased by
the two guardsmen, who took sides with one of the loungers, and by the
scissors-grinder, who was equally hot upon the other side. A blow was
struck, and in an instant the lady, who had stepped from her carriage,
was the centre of a little knot of flushed and struggling men, who
struck savagely at each other with their fists and sticks. Holmes
dashed into the crowd to protect the lady; but, just as he reached her,
he gave a cry and dropped to the ground, with the blood running freely
down his face. At his fall the guardsmen took to their heels in one
direction and the loungers in the other, while a number of better
dressed people, who had watched the scuffle without taking part in it,
crowded in to help the lady and to attend to the injured man. Irene
Adler, as I will still call her, had hurried up the steps; but she
stood at the top with her superb figure outlined against the lights of
the hall, looking back into the street. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He’s a brave fellow,” said a woman. “They would have had the lady’s
purse and watch if it hadn’t been for him. They were a gang, and a
rough one, too. Ah, he’s breathing now.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Slowly and solemnly he was borne into Briony Lodge and laid out in the
principal room, while I still observed the proceedings from my post by
the window. The lamps had been lit, but the blinds had not been drawn,
so that I could see Holmes as he lay upon the couch. I do not know
whether he was seized with compunction at that moment for the part he
was playing, but I know that I never felt more heartily ashamed of
myself in my life than when I saw the beautiful creature against whom I
was conspiring, or the grace and kindliness with which she waited upon
the injured man. And yet it would be the blackest treachery to Holmes
to draw back now from the part which he had intrusted to me. I hardened
my heart, and took the smoke-rocket from under my ulster. After all, I
thought, we are not injuring her. We are but preventing her from
injuring another. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Holmes had sat up upon the couch, and I saw him motion like a man who
is in need of air. A maid rushed across and threw open the window. At
the same instant I saw him raise his hand and at the signal I tossed my
rocket into the room with a cry of “Fire!” The word was no sooner out
of my mouth than the whole crowd of spectators, well dressed and
ill—gentlemen, ostlers, and servant maids—joined in a general shriek of
“Fire!” Thick clouds of smoke curled through the room and out at the
open window. I caught a glimpse of rushing figures, and a moment later
the voice of Holmes from within assuring them that it was a false
alarm. Slipping through the shouting crowd I made my way to the corner
of the street, and in ten minutes was rejoiced to find my friend’s arm
in mine, and to get away from the scene of uproar. He walked swiftly
and in silence for some few minutes until we had turned down one of the
quiet streets which lead towards the Edgeware Road. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I do not wish to make a mystery,” said he, laughing. “The matter was
perfectly simple. You, of course, saw that everyone in the street was
an accomplice. They were all engaged for the evening.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Then, when the row broke out, I had a little moist red paint in the
palm of my hand. I rushed forward, fell down, clapped my hand to my
face, and became a piteous spectacle. It is an old trick.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Then they carried me in. She was bound to have me in. What else could
she do? And into her sitting-room, which was the very room which I
suspected. It lay between that and her bedroom, and I was determined to
see which. They laid me on a couch, I motioned for air, they were
compelled to open the window, and you had your chance.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It was all-important. When a woman thinks that her house is on fire,
her instinct is at once to rush to the thing which she values most. It
is a perfectly overpowering impulse, and I have more than once taken
advantage of it. In the case of the Darlington Substitution Scandal it
was of use to me, and also in the Arnsworth Castle business. A married
woman grabs at her baby; an unmarried one reaches for her jewel-box.
Now it was clear to me that our lady of to-day had nothing in the house
more precious to her than what we are in quest of. She would rush to
secure it. The alarm of fire was admirably done. The smoke and shouting
were enough to shake nerves of steel. She responded beautifully. The
photograph is in a recess behind a sliding panel just above the right
bell-pull. She was there in an instant, and I caught a glimpse of it as
she half drew it out. When I cried out that it was a false alarm, she
replaced it, glanced at the rocket, rushed from the room, and I have
not seen her since. I rose, and, making my excuses, escaped from the
house. I hesitated whether to attempt to secure the photograph at once;
but the coachman had come in, and as he was watching me narrowly, it
seemed safer to wait. A little over-precipitance may ruin all.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Our quest is practically finished. I shall call with the King
to-morrow, and with you, if you care to come with us. We will be shown
into the sitting-room to wait for the lady, but it is probable that
when she comes she may find neither us nor the photograph. It might be
a satisfaction to his Majesty to regain it with his own hands.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “At eight in the morning. She will not be up, so that we shall have a
clear field. Besides, we must be prompt, for this marriage may mean a
complete change in her life and habits. I must wire to the King without
delay.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We had reached Baker Street and had stopped at the door. He was
searching his pockets for the key when someone passing said: </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> There were several people on the pavement at the time, but the greeting
appeared to come from a slim youth in an ulster who had hurried by. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I’ve heard that voice before,” said Holmes, staring down the dimly lit
street. “Now, I wonder who the deuce that could have been.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I slept at Baker Street that night, and we were engaged upon our toast
and coffee in the morning when the King of Bohemia rushed into the
room. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Because it would spare your Majesty all fear of future annoyance. If
the lady loves her husband, she does not love your Majesty. If she does
not love your Majesty, there is no reason why she should interfere with
your Majesty’s plan.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is true. And yet—! Well! I wish she had been of my own station!
What a queen she would have made!” He relapsed into a moody silence,
which was not broken until we drew up in Serpentine Avenue. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The door of Briony Lodge was open, and an elderly woman stood upon the
steps. She watched us with a sardonic eye as we stepped from the
brougham. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Indeed! My mistress told me that you were likely to call. She left
this morning with her husband by the 5:15 train from Charing Cross for
the Continent.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “We shall see.” He pushed past the servant and rushed into the
drawing-room, followed by the King and myself. The furniture was
scattered about in every direction, with dismantled shelves and open
drawers, as if the lady had hurriedly ransacked them before her flight.
Holmes rushed at the bell-pull, tore back a small sliding shutter, and,
plunging in his hand, pulled out a photograph and a letter. The
photograph was of Irene Adler herself in evening dress, the letter was
superscribed to “Sherlock Holmes, Esq. To be left till called for.” My
friend tore it open, and we all three read it together. It was dated at
midnight of the preceding night and ran in this way: </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “MY DEAR MR. SHERLOCK HOLMES,—You really did it very well. You took
    me in completely. Until after the alarm of fire, I had not a
    suspicion. But then, when I found how I had betrayed myself, I
    began to think. I had been warned against you months ago. I had
    been told that, if the King employed an agent, it would certainly
    be you. And your address had been given me. Yet, with all this, you
    made me reveal what you wanted to know. Even after I became
    suspicious, I found it hard to think evil of such a dear, kind old
    clergyman. But, you know, I have been trained as an actress myself.
    Male costume is nothing new to me. I often take advantage of the
    freedom which it gives. I sent John, the coachman, to watch you,
    ran upstairs, got into my walking clothes, as I call them, and came
    down just as you departed. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, I followed you to your door, and so made sure that I was
    really an object of interest to the celebrated Mr. Sherlock Holmes.
    Then I, rather imprudently, wished you good-night, and started for
    the Temple to see my husband. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “We both thought the best resource was flight, when pursued by so
    formidable an antagonist; so you will find the nest empty when you
    call to-morrow. As to the photograph, your client may rest in
    peace. I love and am loved by a better man than he. The King may do
    what he will without hindrance from one whom he has cruelly
    wronged. I keep it only to safeguard myself, and to preserve a
    weapon which will always secure me from any steps which he might
    take in the future. I leave a photograph which he might care to
    possess; and I remain, dear Mr. Sherlock Holmes, </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “What a woman—oh, what a woman!” cried the King of Bohemia, when we had
all three read this epistle. “Did I not tell you how quick and resolute
she was? Would she not have made an admirable queen? Is it not a pity
that she was not on my level?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “From what I have seen of the lady, she seems, indeed, to be on a very
different level to your Majesty,” said Holmes coldly. “I am sorry that
I have not been able to bring your Majesty’s business to a more
successful conclusion.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “On the contrary, my dear sir,” cried the King; “nothing could be more
successful. I know that her word is inviolate. The photograph is now as
safe as if it were in the fire.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am immensely indebted to you. Pray tell me in what way I can reward
you. This ring—” He slipped an emerald snake ring from his finger and
held it out upon the palm of his hand. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I thank your Majesty. Then there is no more to be done in the matter.
I have the honour to wish you a very good morning.” He bowed, and,
turning away without observing the hand which the King had stretched
out to him, he set off in my company for his chambers. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> And that was how a great scandal threatened to affect the kingdom of
Bohemia, and how the best plans of Mr. Sherlock Holmes were beaten by a
woman’s wit. He used to make merry over the cleverness of women, but I
have not heard him do it of late. And when he speaks of Irene Adler, or
when he refers to her photograph, it is always under the honourable
title of _the_ woman. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I had called upon my friend, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, one day in the
 autumn of last year and found him in deep conversation with a very
 stout, florid-faced, elderly gentleman with fiery red hair. With an
 apology for my intrusion, I was about to withdraw when Holmes pulled
 me abruptly into the room and closed the door behind me. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Not at all. This gentleman, Mr. Wilson, has been my partner and helper
in many of my most successful cases, and I have no doubt that he will
be of the utmost use to me in yours also.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The stout gentleman half rose from his chair and gave a bob of
greeting, with a quick little questioning glance from his small
fat-encircled eyes. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Try the settee,” said Holmes, relapsing into his armchair and putting
his fingertips together, as was his custom when in judicial moods. “I
know, my dear Watson, that you share my love of all that is bizarre and
outside the conventions and humdrum routine of everyday life. You have
shown your relish for it by the enthusiasm which has prompted you to
chronicle, and, if you will excuse my saying so, somewhat to embellish
so many of my own little adventures.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You will remember that I remarked the other day, just before we went
into the very simple problem presented by Miss Mary Sutherland, that
for strange effects and extraordinary combinations we must go to life
itself, which is always far more daring than any effort of the
imagination.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You did, Doctor, but none the less you must come round to my view, for
otherwise I shall keep on piling fact upon fact on you until your
reason breaks down under them and acknowledges me to be right. Now, Mr.
Jabez Wilson here has been good enough to call upon me this morning,
and to begin a narrative which promises to be one of the most singular
which I have listened to for some time. You have heard me remark that
the strangest and most unique things are very often connected not with
the larger but with the smaller crimes, and occasionally, indeed, where
there is room for doubt whether any positive crime has been committed.
As far as I have heard, it is impossible for me to say whether the
present case is an instance of crime or not, but the course of events
is certainly among the most singular that I have ever listened to.
Perhaps, Mr. Wilson, you would have the great kindness to recommence
your narrative. I ask you not merely because my friend Dr. Watson has
not heard the opening part but also because the peculiar nature of the
story makes me anxious to have every possible detail from your lips. As
a rule, when I have heard some slight indication of the course of
events, I am able to guide myself by the thousands of other similar
cases which occur to my memory. In the present instance I am forced to
admit that the facts are, to the best of my belief, unique.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The portly client puffed out his chest with an appearance of some
little pride and pulled a dirty and wrinkled newspaper from the inside
pocket of his greatcoat. As he glanced down the advertisement column,
with his head thrust forward and the paper flattened out upon his knee,
I took a good look at the man and endeavoured, after the fashion of my
companion, to read the indications which might be presented by his
dress or appearance. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I did not gain very much, however, by my inspection. Our visitor bore
every mark of being an average commonplace British tradesman, obese,
pompous, and slow. He wore rather baggy grey shepherd’s check trousers,
a not over-clean black frock-coat, unbuttoned in the front, and a drab
waistcoat with a heavy brassy Albert chain, and a square pierced bit of
metal dangling down as an ornament. A frayed top-hat and a faded brown
overcoat with a wrinkled velvet collar lay upon a chair beside him.
Altogether, look as I would, there was nothing remarkable about the man
save his blazing red head, and the expression of extreme chagrin and
discontent upon his features. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Sherlock Holmes’ quick eye took in my occupation, and he shook his head
with a smile as he noticed my questioning glances. “Beyond the obvious
facts that he has at some time done manual labour, that he takes snuff,
that he is a Freemason, that he has been in China, and that he has done
a considerable amount of writing lately, I can deduce nothing else.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “How, in the name of good-fortune, did you know all that, Mr. Holmes?”
he asked. “How did you know, for example, that I did manual labour.
It’s as true as gospel, for I began as a ship’s carpenter.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Your hands, my dear sir. Your right hand is quite a size larger than
your left. You have worked with it, and the muscles are more
developed.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I won’t insult your intelligence by telling you how I read that,
especially as, rather against the strict rules of your order, you use
an arc-and-compass breastpin.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “What else can be indicated by that right cuff so very shiny for five
inches, and the left one with the smooth patch near the elbow where you
rest it upon the desk?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The fish that you have tattooed immediately above your right wrist
could only have been done in China. I have made a small study of tattoo
marks and have even contributed to the literature of the subject. That
trick of staining the fishes’ scales of a delicate pink is quite
peculiar to China. When, in addition, I see a Chinese coin hanging from
your watch-chain, the matter becomes even more simple.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Jabez Wilson laughed heavily. “Well, I never!” said he. “I thought
at first that you had done something clever, but I see that there was
nothing in it after all.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I begin to think, Watson,” said Holmes, “that I make a mistake in
explaining. ‘_Omne ignotum pro magnifico_,’ you know, and my poor
little reputation, such as it is, will suffer shipwreck if I am so
candid. Can you not find the advertisement, Mr. Wilson?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, I have got it now,” he answered with his thick red finger planted
halfway down the column. “Here it is. This is what began it all. You
just read it for yourself, sir.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “TO THE RED-HEADED LEAGUE: On account of the bequest of the late
Ezekiah Hopkins, of Lebanon, Pennsylvania, U.S.A., there is now another
vacancy open which entitles a member of the League to a salary of £ 4 a
week for purely nominal services. All red-headed men who are sound in
body and mind and above the age of twenty-one years, are eligible.
Apply in person on Monday, at eleven o’clock, to Duncan Ross, at the
offices of the League, 7 Pope’s Court, Fleet Street.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Holmes chuckled and wriggled in his chair, as was his habit when in
high spirits. “It is a little off the beaten track, isn’t it?” said he.
“And now, Mr. Wilson, off you go at scratch and tell us all about
yourself, your household, and the effect which this advertisement had
upon your fortunes. You will first make a note, Doctor, of the paper
and the date.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, it is just as I have been telling you, Mr. Sherlock Holmes,”
said Jabez Wilson, mopping his forehead; “I have a small pawnbroker’s
business at Coburg Square, near the City. It’s not a very large affair,
and of late years it has not done more than just give me a living. I
used to be able to keep two assistants, but now I only keep one; and I
would have a job to pay him but that he is willing to come for half
wages so as to learn the business.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “His name is Vincent Spaulding, and he’s not such a youth, either. It’s
hard to say his age. I should not wish a smarter assistant, Mr. Holmes;
and I know very well that he could better himself and earn twice what I
am able to give him. But, after all, if he is satisfied, why should I
put ideas in his head?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Why, indeed? You seem most fortunate in having an _employé_ who comes
under the full market price. It is not a common experience among
employers in this age. I don’t know that your assistant is not as
remarkable as your advertisement.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, he has his faults, too,” said Mr. Wilson. “Never was such a fellow
for photography. Snapping away with a camera when he ought to be
improving his mind, and then diving down into the cellar like a rabbit
into its hole to develop his pictures. That is his main fault, but on
the whole he’s a good worker. There’s no vice in him.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, sir. He and a girl of fourteen, who does a bit of simple cooking
and keeps the place clean—that’s all I have in the house, for I am a
widower and never had any family. We live very quietly, sir, the three
of us; and we keep a roof over our heads and pay our debts, if we do
nothing more. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The first thing that put us out was that advertisement. Spaulding, he
came down into the office just this day eight weeks, with this very
paper in his hand, and he says: </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Why,’ says he, ‘here’s another vacancy on the League of the
Red-headed Men. It’s worth quite a little fortune to any man who gets
it, and I understand that there are more vacancies than there are men,
so that the trustees are at their wits’ end what to do with the money.
If my hair would only change colour, here’s a nice little crib all
ready for me to step into.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Why, what is it, then?’ I asked. You see, Mr. Holmes, I am a very
stay-at-home man, and as my business came to me instead of my having to
go to it, I was often weeks on end without putting my foot over the
door-mat. In that way I didn’t know much of what was going on outside,
and I was always glad of a bit of news. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Oh, merely a couple of hundred a year, but the work is slight, and it
need not interfere very much with one’s other occupations.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, you can easily think that that made me prick up my ears, for the
business has not been over good for some years, and an extra couple of
hundred would have been very handy. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Well,’ said he, showing me the advertisement, ‘you can see for
yourself that the League has a vacancy, and there is the address where
you should apply for particulars. As far as I can make out, the League
was founded by an American millionaire, Ezekiah Hopkins, who was very
peculiar in his ways. He was himself red-headed, and he had a great
sympathy for all red-headed men; so, when he died, it was found that he
had left his enormous fortune in the hands of trustees, with
instructions to apply the interest to the providing of easy berths to
men whose hair is of that colour. From all I hear it is splendid pay
and very little to do.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Not so many as you might think,’ he answered. ‘You see it is really
confined to Londoners, and to grown men. This American had started from
London when he was young, and he wanted to do the old town a good turn.
Then, again, I have heard it is no use your applying if your hair is
light red, or dark red, or anything but real bright, blazing, fiery
red. Now, if you cared to apply, Mr. Wilson, you would just walk in;
but perhaps it would hardly be worth your while to put yourself out of
the way for the sake of a few hundred pounds.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Now, it is a fact, gentlemen, as you may see for yourselves, that my
hair is of a very full and rich tint, so that it seemed to me that if
there was to be any competition in the matter I stood as good a chance
as any man that I had ever met. Vincent Spaulding seemed to know so
much about it that I thought he might prove useful, so I just ordered
him to put up the shutters for the day and to come right away with me.
He was very willing to have a holiday, so we shut the business up and
started off for the address that was given us in the advertisement. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I never hope to see such a sight as that again, Mr. Holmes. From
north, south, east, and west every man who had a shade of red in his
hair had tramped into the city to answer the advertisement. Fleet
Street was choked with red-headed folk, and Pope’s Court looked like a
coster’s orange barrow. I should not have thought there were so many in
the whole country as were brought together by that single
advertisement. Every shade of colour they were—straw, lemon, orange,
brick, Irish-setter, liver, clay; but, as Spaulding said, there were
not many who had the real vivid flame-coloured tint. When I saw how
many were waiting, I would have given it up in despair; but Spaulding
would not hear of it. How he did it I could not imagine, but he pushed
and pulled and butted until he got me through the crowd, and right up
to the steps which led to the office. There was a double stream upon
the stair, some going up in hope, and some coming back dejected; but we
wedged in as well as we could and soon found ourselves in the office.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Your experience has been a most entertaining one,” remarked Holmes as
his client paused and refreshed his memory with a huge pinch of snuff.
“Pray continue your very interesting statement.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “There was nothing in the office but a couple of wooden chairs and a
deal table, behind which sat a small man with a head that was even
redder than mine. He said a few words to each candidate as he came up,
and then he always managed to find some fault in them which would
disqualify them. Getting a vacancy did not seem to be such a very easy
matter, after all. However, when our turn came the little man was much
more favourable to me than to any of the others, and he closed the door
as we entered, so that he might have a private word with us. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘And he is admirably suited for it,’ the other answered. ‘He has every
requirement. I cannot recall when I have seen anything so fine.’ He
took a step backward, cocked his head on one side, and gazed at my hair
until I felt quite bashful. Then suddenly he plunged forward, wrung my
hand, and congratulated me warmly on my success. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘It would be injustice to hesitate,’ said he. ‘You will, however, I am
sure, excuse me for taking an obvious precaution.’ With that he seized
my hair in both his hands, and tugged until I yelled with the pain.
‘There is water in your eyes,’ said he as he released me. ‘I perceive
that all is as it should be. But we have to be careful, for we have
twice been deceived by wigs and once by paint. I could tell you tales
of cobbler’s wax which would disgust you with human nature.’ He stepped
over to the window and shouted through it at the top of his voice that
the vacancy was filled. A groan of disappointment came up from below,
and the folk all trooped away in different directions until there was
not a red-head to be seen except my own and that of the manager. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘My name,’ said he, ‘is Mr. Duncan Ross, and I am myself one of the
pensioners upon the fund left by our noble benefactor. Are you a
married man, Mr. Wilson? Have you a family?’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Dear me!’ he said gravely, ‘that is very serious indeed! I am sorry
to hear you say that. The fund was, of course, for the propagation and
spread of the red-heads as well as for their maintenance. It is
exceedingly unfortunate that you should be a bachelor.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My face lengthened at this, Mr. Holmes, for I thought that I was not
to have the vacancy after all; but after thinking it over for a few
minutes he said that it would be all right. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘In the case of another,’ said he, ‘the objection might be fatal, but
we must stretch a point in favour of a man with such a head of hair as
yours. When shall you be able to enter upon your new duties?’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Now a pawnbroker’s business is mostly done of an evening, Mr. Holmes,
especially Thursday and Friday evening, which is just before pay-day;
so it would suit me very well to earn a little in the mornings.
Besides, I knew that my assistant was a good man, and that he would see
to anything that turned up. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Well, you have to be in the office, or at least in the building, the
whole time. If you leave, you forfeit your whole position forever. The
will is very clear upon that point. You don’t comply with the
conditions if you budge from the office during that time.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘No excuse will avail,’ said Mr. Duncan Ross; ‘neither sickness nor
business nor anything else. There you must stay, or you lose your
billet.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Is to copy out the _Encyclopædia Britannica_. There is the first
volume of it in that press. You must find your own ink, pens, and
blotting-paper, but we provide this table and chair. Will you be ready
to-morrow?’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Then, good-bye, Mr. Jabez Wilson, and let me congratulate you once
more on the important position which you have been fortunate enough to
gain.’ He bowed me out of the room and I went home with my assistant,
hardly knowing what to say or do, I was so pleased at my own good
fortune. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, I thought over the matter all day, and by evening I was in low
spirits again; for I had quite persuaded myself that the whole affair
must be some great hoax or fraud, though what its object might be I
could not imagine. It seemed altogether past belief that anyone could
make such a will, or that they would pay such a sum for doing anything
so simple as copying out the _Encyclopædia Britannica_. Vincent
Spaulding did what he could to cheer me up, but by bedtime I had
reasoned myself out of the whole thing. However, in the morning I
determined to have a look at it anyhow, so I bought a penny bottle of
ink, and with a quill-pen, and seven sheets of foolscap paper, I
started off for Pope’s Court. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, to my surprise and delight, everything was as right as possible.
The table was set out ready for me, and Mr. Duncan Ross was there to
see that I got fairly to work. He started me off upon the letter A, and
then he left me; but he would drop in from time to time to see that all
was right with me. At two o’clock he bade me good-day, complimented me
upon the amount that I had written, and locked the door of the office
after me. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This went on day after day, Mr. Holmes, and on Saturday the manager
came in and planked down four golden sovereigns for my week’s work. It
was the same next week, and the same the week after. Every morning I
was there at ten, and every afternoon I left at two. By degrees Mr.
Duncan Ross took to coming in only once of a morning, and then, after a
time, he did not come in at all. Still, of course, I never dared to
leave the room for an instant, for I was not sure when he might come,
and the billet was such a good one, and suited me so well, that I would
not risk the loss of it. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Eight weeks passed away like this, and I had written about Abbots and
Archery and Armour and Architecture and Attica, and hoped with
diligence that I might get on to the B’s before very long. It cost me
something in foolscap, and I had pretty nearly filled a shelf with my
writings. And then suddenly the whole business came to an end.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, sir. And no later than this morning. I went to my work as usual
at ten o’clock, but the door was shut and locked, with a little square
of cardboard hammered on to the middle of the panel with a tack. Here
it is, and you can read for yourself.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He held up a piece of white cardboard about the size of a sheet of
note-paper. It read in this fashion: </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Sherlock Holmes and I surveyed this curt announcement and the rueful
face behind it, until the comical side of the affair so completely
overtopped every other consideration that we both burst out into a roar
of laughter. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I cannot see that there is anything very funny,” cried our client,
flushing up to the roots of his flaming head. “If you can do nothing
better than laugh at me, I can go elsewhere.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No, no,” cried Holmes, shoving him back into the chair from which he
had half risen. “I really wouldn’t miss your case for the world. It is
most refreshingly unusual. But there is, if you will excuse my saying
so, something just a little funny about it. Pray what steps did you
take when you found the card upon the door?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I was staggered, sir. I did not know what to do. Then I called at the
offices round, but none of them seemed to know anything about it.
Finally, I went to the landlord, who is an accountant living on the
ground floor, and I asked him if he could tell me what had become of
the Red-headed League. He said that he had never heard of any such
body. Then I asked him who Mr. Duncan Ross was. He answered that the
name was new to him. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Oh,’ said he, ‘his name was William Morris. He was a solicitor and
was using my room as a temporary convenience until his new premises
were ready. He moved out yesterday.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I started off, Mr. Holmes, but when I got to that address it was a
manufactory of artificial knee-caps, and no one in it had ever heard of
either Mr. William Morris or Mr. Duncan Ross.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I went home to Saxe-Coburg Square, and I took the advice of my
assistant. But he could not help me in any way. He could only say that
if I waited I should hear by post. But that was not quite good enough,
Mr. Holmes. I did not wish to lose such a place without a struggle, so,
as I had heard that you were good enough to give advice to poor folk
who were in need of it, I came right away to you.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And you did very wisely,” said Holmes. “Your case is an exceedingly
remarkable one, and I shall be happy to look into it. From what you
have told me I think that it is possible that graver issues hang from
it than might at first sight appear.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “As far as you are personally concerned,” remarked Holmes, “I do not
see that you have any grievance against this extraordinary league. On
the contrary, you are, as I understand, richer by some £ 30, to say
nothing of the minute knowledge which you have gained on every subject
which comes under the letter A. You have lost nothing by them.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No, sir. But I want to find out about them, and who they are, and what
their object was in playing this prank—if it was a prank—upon me. It
was a pretty expensive joke for them, for it cost them two and thirty
pounds.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “We shall endeavour to clear up these points for you. And, first, one
or two questions, Mr. Wilson. This assistant of yours who first called
your attention to the advertisement—how long had he been with you?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Small, stout-built, very quick in his ways, no hair on his face,
though he’s not short of thirty. Has a white splash of acid upon his
forehead.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Holmes sat up in his chair in considerable excitement. “I thought as
much,” said he. “Have you ever observed that his ears are pierced for
earrings?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That will do, Mr. Wilson. I shall be happy to give you an opinion upon
the subject in the course of a day or two. To-day is Saturday, and I
hope that by Monday we may come to a conclusion.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “As a rule,” said Holmes, “the more bizarre a thing is the less
mysterious it proves to be. It is your commonplace, featureless crimes
which are really puzzling, just as a commonplace face is the most
difficult to identify. But I must be prompt over this matter.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “To smoke,” he answered. “It is quite a three pipe problem, and I beg
that you won’t speak to me for fifty minutes.” He curled himself up in
his chair, with his thin knees drawn up to his hawk-like nose, and
there he sat with his eyes closed and his black clay pipe thrusting out
like the bill of some strange bird. I had come to the conclusion that
he had dropped asleep, and indeed was nodding myself, when he suddenly
sprang out of his chair with the gesture of a man who has made up his
mind and put his pipe down upon the mantelpiece. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Sarasate plays at the St. James’s Hall this afternoon,” he remarked.
“What do you think, Watson? Could your patients spare you for a few
hours?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Then put on your hat and come. I am going through the City first, and
we can have some lunch on the way. I observe that there is a good deal
of German music on the programme, which is rather more to my taste than
Italian or French. It is introspective, and I want to introspect. Come
along!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We travelled by the Underground as far as Aldersgate; and a short walk
took us to Saxe-Coburg Square, the scene of the singular story which we
had listened to in the morning. It was a poky, little, shabby-genteel
place, where four lines of dingy two-storied brick houses looked out
into a small railed-in enclosure, where a lawn of weedy grass and a few
clumps of faded laurel bushes made a hard fight against a smoke-laden
and uncongenial atmosphere. Three gilt balls and a brown board with
“JABEZ WILSON” in white letters, upon a corner house, announced the
place where our red-headed client carried on his business. Sherlock
Holmes stopped in front of it with his head on one side and looked it
all over, with his eyes shining brightly between puckered lids. Then he
walked slowly up the street, and then down again to the corner, still
looking keenly at the houses. Finally he returned to the pawnbroker’s,
and, having thumped vigorously upon the pavement with his stick two or
three times, he went up to the door and knocked. It was instantly
opened by a bright-looking, clean-shaven young fellow, who asked him to
step in. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Smart fellow, that,” observed Holmes as we walked away. “He is, in my
judgment, the fourth smartest man in London, and for daring I am not
sure that he has not a claim to be third. I have known something of him
before.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Evidently,” said I, “Mr. Wilson’s assistant counts for a good deal in
this mystery of the Red-headed League. I am sure that you inquired your
way merely in order that you might see him.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My dear doctor, this is a time for observation, not for talk. We are
spies in an enemy’s country. We know something of Saxe-Coburg Square.
Let us now explore the parts which lie behind it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The road in which we found ourselves as we turned round the corner from
the retired Saxe-Coburg Square presented as great a contrast to it as
the front of a picture does to the back. It was one of the main
arteries which conveyed the traffic of the City to the north and west.
The roadway was blocked with the immense stream of commerce flowing in
a double tide inward and outward, while the footpaths were black with
the hurrying swarm of pedestrians. It was difficult to realise as we
looked at the line of fine shops and stately business premises that
they really abutted on the other side upon the faded and stagnant
square which we had just quitted. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Let me see,” said Holmes, standing at the corner and glancing along
the line, “I should like just to remember the order of the houses here.
It is a hobby of mine to have an exact knowledge of London. There is
Mortimer’s, the tobacconist, the little newspaper shop, the Coburg
branch of the City and Suburban Bank, the Vegetarian Restaurant, and
McFarlane’s carriage-building depot. That carries us right on to the
other block. And now, Doctor, we’ve done our work, so it’s time we had
some play. A sandwich and a cup of coffee, and then off to violin-land,
where all is sweetness and delicacy and harmony, and there are no
red-headed clients to vex us with their conundrums.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> My friend was an enthusiastic musician, being himself not only a very
capable performer but a composer of no ordinary merit. All the
afternoon he sat in the stalls wrapped in the most perfect happiness,
gently waving his long, thin fingers in time to the music, while his
gently smiling face and his languid, dreamy eyes were as unlike those
of Holmes the sleuth-hound, Holmes the relentless, keen-witted,
ready-handed criminal agent, as it was possible to conceive. In his
singular character the dual nature alternately asserted itself, and his
extreme exactness and astuteness represented, as I have often thought,
the reaction against the poetic and contemplative mood which
occasionally predominated in him. The swing of his nature took him from
extreme languor to devouring energy; and, as I knew well, he was never
so truly formidable as when, for days on end, he had been lounging in
his armchair amid his improvisations and his black-letter editions.
Then it was that the lust of the chase would suddenly come upon him,
and that his brilliant reasoning power would rise to the level of
intuition, until those who were unacquainted with his methods would
look askance at him as on a man whose knowledge was not that of other
mortals. When I saw him that afternoon so enwrapped in the music at St.
James’s Hall I felt that an evil time might be coming upon those whom
he had set himself to hunt down. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “A considerable crime is in contemplation. I have every reason to
believe that we shall be in time to stop it. But to-day being Saturday
rather complicates matters. I shall want your help to-night.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Very well. And, I say, Doctor, there may be some little danger, so
kindly put your army revolver in your pocket.” He waved his hand,
turned on his heel, and disappeared in an instant among the crowd. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I trust that I am not more dense than my neighbours, but I was always
oppressed with a sense of my own stupidity in my dealings with Sherlock
Holmes. Here I had heard what he had heard, I had seen what he had
seen, and yet from his words it was evident that he saw clearly not
only what had happened but what was about to happen, while to me the
whole business was still confused and grotesque. As I drove home to my
house in Kensington I thought over it all, from the extraordinary story
of the red-headed copier of the _Encyclopædia_ down to the visit to
Saxe-Coburg Square, and the ominous words with which he had parted from
me. What was this nocturnal expedition, and why should I go armed?
Where were we going, and what were we to do? I had the hint from Holmes
that this smooth-faced pawnbroker’s assistant was a formidable man—a
man who might play a deep game. I tried to puzzle it out, but gave it
up in despair and set the matter aside until night should bring an
explanation. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was a quarter-past nine when I started from home and made my way
across the Park, and so through Oxford Street to Baker Street. Two
hansoms were standing at the door, and as I entered the passage I heard
the sound of voices from above. On entering his room, I found Holmes in
animated conversation with two men, one of whom I recognised as Peter
Jones, the official police agent, while the other was a long, thin,
sad-faced man, with a very shiny hat and oppressively respectable
frock-coat. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Ha! Our party is complete,” said Holmes, buttoning up his pea-jacket
and taking his heavy hunting crop from the rack. “Watson, I think you
know Mr. Jones, of Scotland Yard? Let me introduce you to Mr.
Merryweather, who is to be our companion in to-night’s adventure.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “We’re hunting in couples again, Doctor, you see,” said Jones in his
consequential way. “Our friend here is a wonderful man for starting a
chase. All he wants is an old dog to help him to do the running down.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You may place considerable confidence in Mr. Holmes, sir,” said the
police agent loftily. “He has his own little methods, which are, if he
won’t mind my saying so, just a little too theoretical and fantastic,
but he has the makings of a detective in him. It is not too much to say
that once or twice, as in that business of the Sholto murder and the
Agra treasure, he has been more nearly correct than the official
force.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, if you say so, Mr. Jones, it is all right,” said the stranger with
deference. “Still, I confess that I miss my rubber. It is the first
Saturday night for seven-and-twenty years that I have not had my
rubber.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I think you will find,” said Sherlock Holmes, “that you will play for
a higher stake to-night than you have ever done yet, and that the play
will be more exciting. For you, Mr. Merryweather, the stake will be
some £ 30,000; and for you, Jones, it will be the man upon whom you
wish to lay your hands.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “John Clay, the murderer, thief, smasher, and forger. He’s a young man,
Mr. Merryweather, but he is at the head of his profession, and I would
rather have my bracelets on him than on any criminal in London. He’s a
remarkable man, is young John Clay. His grandfather was a royal duke,
and he himself has been to Eton and Oxford. His brain is as cunning as
his fingers, and though we meet signs of him at every turn, we never
know where to find the man himself. He’ll crack a crib in Scotland one
week, and be raising money to build an orphanage in Cornwall the next.
I’ve been on his track for years and have never set eyes on him yet.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I hope that I may have the pleasure of introducing you to-night. I’ve
had one or two little turns also with Mr. John Clay, and I agree with
you that he is at the head of his profession. It is past ten, however,
and quite time that we started. If you two will take the first hansom,
Watson and I will follow in the second.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Sherlock Holmes was not very communicative during the long drive and
lay back in the cab humming the tunes which he had heard in the
afternoon. We rattled through an endless labyrinth of gas-lit streets
until we emerged into Farrington Street. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “We are close there now,” my friend remarked. “This fellow Merryweather
is a bank director, and personally interested in the matter. I thought
it as well to have Jones with us also. He is not a bad fellow, though
an absolute imbecile in his profession. He has one positive virtue. He
is as brave as a bulldog and as tenacious as a lobster if he gets his
claws upon anyone. Here we are, and they are waiting for us.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We had reached the same crowded thoroughfare in which we had found
ourselves in the morning. Our cabs were dismissed, and, following the
guidance of Mr. Merryweather, we passed down a narrow passage and
through a side door, which he opened for us. Within there was a small
corridor, which ended in a very massive iron gate. This also was
opened, and led down a flight of winding stone steps, which terminated
at another formidable gate. Mr. Merryweather stopped to light a
lantern, and then conducted us down a dark, earth-smelling passage, and
so, after opening a third door, into a huge vault or cellar, which was
piled all round with crates and massive boxes. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Nor from below,” said Mr. Merryweather, striking his stick upon the
flags which lined the floor. “Why, dear me, it sounds quite hollow!” he
remarked, looking up in surprise. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I must really ask you to be a little more quiet!” said Holmes
severely. “You have already imperilled the whole success of our
expedition. Might I beg that you would have the goodness to sit down
upon one of those boxes, and not to interfere?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The solemn Mr. Merryweather perched himself upon a crate, with a very
injured expression upon his face, while Holmes fell upon his knees upon
the floor and, with the lantern and a magnifying lens, began to examine
minutely the cracks between the stones. A few seconds sufficed to
satisfy him, for he sprang to his feet again and put his glass in his
pocket. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “We have at least an hour before us,” he remarked, “for they can hardly
take any steps until the good pawnbroker is safely in bed. Then they
will not lose a minute, for the sooner they do their work the longer
time they will have for their escape. We are at present, Doctor—as no
doubt you have divined—in the cellar of the City branch of one of the
principal London banks. Mr. Merryweather is the chairman of directors,
and he will explain to you that there are reasons why the more daring
criminals of London should take a considerable interest in this cellar
at present.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is our French gold,” whispered the director. “We have had several
warnings that an attempt might be made upon it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes. We had occasion some months ago to strengthen our resources and
borrowed for that purpose 30,000 napoleons from the Bank of France. It
has become known that we have never had occasion to unpack the money,
and that it is still lying in our cellar. The crate upon which I sit
contains 2,000 napoleons packed between layers of lead foil. Our
reserve of bullion is much larger at present than is usually kept in a
single branch office, and the directors have had misgivings upon the
subject.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Which were very well justified,” observed Holmes. “And now it is time
that we arranged our little plans. I expect that within an hour matters
will come to a head. In the meantime Mr. Merryweather, we must put the
screen over that dark lantern.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am afraid so. I had brought a pack of cards in my pocket, and I
thought that, as we were a _partie carrée_, you might have your rubber
after all. But I see that the enemy’s preparations have gone so far
that we cannot risk the presence of a light. And, first of all, we must
choose our positions. These are daring men, and though we shall take
them at a disadvantage, they may do us some harm unless we are careful.
I shall stand behind this crate, and do you conceal yourselves behind
those. Then, when I flash a light upon them, close in swiftly. If they
fire, Watson, have no compunction about shooting them down.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I placed my revolver, cocked, upon the top of the wooden case behind
which I crouched. Holmes shot the slide across the front of his lantern
and left us in pitch darkness—such an absolute darkness as I have never
before experienced. The smell of hot metal remained to assure us that
the light was still there, ready to flash out at a moment’s notice. To
me, with my nerves worked up to a pitch of expectancy, there was
something depressing and subduing in the sudden gloom, and in the cold
dank air of the vault. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “They have but one retreat,” whispered Holmes. “That is back through
the house into Saxe-Coburg Square. I hope that you have done what I
asked you, Jones?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> What a time it seemed! From comparing notes afterwards it was but an
hour and a quarter, yet it appeared to me that the night must have
almost gone, and the dawn be breaking above us. My limbs were weary and
stiff, for I feared to change my position; yet my nerves were worked up
to the highest pitch of tension, and my hearing was so acute that I
could not only hear the gentle breathing of my companions, but I could
distinguish the deeper, heavier in-breath of the bulky Jones from the
thin, sighing note of the bank director. From my position I could look
over the case in the direction of the floor. Suddenly my eyes caught
the glint of a light. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> At first it was but a lurid spark upon the stone pavement. Then it
lengthened out until it became a yellow line, and then, without any
warning or sound, a gash seemed to open and a hand appeared, a white,
almost womanly hand, which felt about in the centre of the little area
of light. For a minute or more the hand, with its writhing fingers,
protruded out of the floor. Then it was withdrawn as suddenly as it
appeared, and all was dark again save the single lurid spark which
marked a chink between the stones. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Its disappearance, however, was but momentary. With a rending, tearing
sound, one of the broad, white stones turned over upon its side and
left a square, gaping hole, through which streamed the light of a
lantern. Over the edge there peeped a clean-cut, boyish face, which
looked keenly about it, and then, with a hand on either side of the
aperture, drew itself shoulder-high and waist-high, until one knee
rested upon the edge. In another instant he stood at the side of the
hole and was hauling after him a companion, lithe and small like
himself, with a pale face and a shock of very red hair. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It’s all clear,” he whispered. “Have you the chisel and the bags?
Great Scott! Jump, Archie, jump, and I’ll swing for it!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Sherlock Holmes had sprung out and seized the intruder by the collar.
The other dived down the hole, and I heard the sound of rending cloth
as Jones clutched at his skirts. The light flashed upon the barrel of a
revolver, but Holmes’ hunting crop came down on the man’s wrist, and
the pistol clinked upon the stone floor. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “So I see,” the other answered with the utmost coolness. “I fancy that
my pal is all right, though I see you have got his coat-tails.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You’ll see your pal again presently,” said Jones. “He’s quicker at
climbing down holes than I am. Just hold out while I fix the derbies.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I beg that you will not touch me with your filthy hands,” remarked our
prisoner as the handcuffs clattered upon his wrists. “You may not be
aware that I have royal blood in my veins. Have the goodness, also,
when you address me always to say ‘sir’ and ‘please.’” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “All right,” said Jones with a stare and a snigger. “Well, would you
please, sir, march upstairs, where we can get a cab to carry your
Highness to the police-station?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That is better,” said John Clay serenely. He made a sweeping bow to
the three of us and walked quietly off in the custody of the detective. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Really, Mr. Holmes,” said Mr. Merryweather as we followed them from
the cellar, “I do not know how the bank can thank you or repay you.
There is no doubt that you have detected and defeated in the most
complete manner one of the most determined attempts at bank robbery
that have ever come within my experience.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have had one or two little scores of my own to settle with Mr. John
Clay,” said Holmes. “I have been at some small expense over this
matter, which I shall expect the bank to refund, but beyond that I am
amply repaid by having had an experience which is in many ways unique,
and by hearing the very remarkable narrative of the Red-headed League.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You see, Watson,” he explained in the early hours of the morning as we
sat over a glass of whisky and soda in Baker Street, “it was perfectly
obvious from the first that the only possible object of this rather
fantastic business of the advertisement of the League, and the copying
of the _Encyclopædia_, must be to get this not over-bright pawnbroker
out of the way for a number of hours every day. It was a curious way of
managing it, but, really, it would be difficult to suggest a better.
The method was no doubt suggested to Clay’s ingenious mind by the
colour of his accomplice’s hair. The £ 4 a week was a lure which must
draw him, and what was it to them, who were playing for thousands? They
put in the advertisement, one rogue has the temporary office, the other
rogue incites the man to apply for it, and together they manage to
secure his absence every morning in the week. From the time that I
heard of the assistant having come for half wages, it was obvious to me
that he had some strong motive for securing the situation.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Had there been women in the house, I should have suspected a mere
vulgar intrigue. That, however, was out of the question. The man’s
business was a small one, and there was nothing in his house which
could account for such elaborate preparations, and such an expenditure
as they were at. It must, then, be something out of the house. What
could it be? I thought of the assistant’s fondness for photography, and
his trick of vanishing into the cellar. The cellar! There was the end
of this tangled clue. Then I made inquiries as to this mysterious
assistant and found that I had to deal with one of the coolest and most
daring criminals in London. He was doing something in the
cellar—something which took many hours a day for months on end. What
could it be, once more? I could think of nothing save that he was
running a tunnel to some other building. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “So far I had got when we went to visit the scene of action. I
surprised you by beating upon the pavement with my stick. I was
ascertaining whether the cellar stretched out in front or behind. It
was not in front. Then I rang the bell, and, as I hoped, the assistant
answered it. We have had some skirmishes, but we had never set eyes
upon each other before. I hardly looked at his face. His knees were
what I wished to see. You must yourself have remarked how worn,
wrinkled, and stained they were. They spoke of those hours of
burrowing. The only remaining point was what they were burrowing for. I
walked round the corner, saw the City and Suburban Bank abutted on our
friend’s premises, and felt that I had solved my problem. When you
drove home after the concert I called upon Scotland Yard and upon the
chairman of the bank directors, with the result that you have seen.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, when they closed their League offices that was a sign that they
cared no longer about Mr. Jabez Wilson’s presence—in other words, that
they had completed their tunnel. But it was essential that they should
use it soon, as it might be discovered, or the bullion might be
removed. Saturday would suit them better than any other day, as it
would give them two days for their escape. For all these reasons I
expected them to come to-night.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You reasoned it out beautifully,” I exclaimed in unfeigned admiration.
“It is so long a chain, and yet every link rings true.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It saved me from ennui,” he answered, yawning. “Alas! I already feel
it closing in upon me. My life is spent in one long effort to escape
from the commonplaces of existence. These little problems help me to do
so.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He shrugged his shoulders. “Well, perhaps, after all, it is of some
little use,” he remarked. “‘_L’homme c’est rien—l’œuvre c’est tout_,’
as Gustave Flaubert wrote to George Sand.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My dear fellow,” said Sherlock Holmes as we sat on either side of the
fire in his lodgings at Baker Street, “life is infinitely stranger than
anything which the mind of man could invent. We would not dare to
conceive the things which are really mere commonplaces of existence. If
we could fly out of that window hand in hand, hover over this great
city, gently remove the roofs, and peep in at the queer things which
are going on, the strange coincidences, the plannings, the
cross-purposes, the wonderful chains of events, working through
generations, and leading to the most _outré_ results, it would make all
fiction with its conventionalities and foreseen conclusions most stale
and unprofitable.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And yet I am not convinced of it,” I answered. “The cases which come
to light in the papers are, as a rule, bald enough, and vulgar enough.
We have in our police reports realism pushed to its extreme limits, and
yet the result is, it must be confessed, neither fascinating nor
artistic.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “A certain selection and discretion must be used in producing a
realistic effect,” remarked Holmes. “This is wanting in the police
report, where more stress is laid, perhaps, upon the platitudes of the
magistrate than upon the details, which to an observer contain the
vital essence of the whole matter. Depend upon it, there is nothing so
unnatural as the commonplace.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I smiled and shook my head. “I can quite understand your thinking so,”
I said. “Of course, in your position of unofficial adviser and helper
to everybody who is absolutely puzzled, throughout three continents,
you are brought in contact with all that is strange and bizarre. But
here”—I picked up the morning paper from the ground—“let us put it to a
practical test. Here is the first heading upon which I come. ‘A
husband’s cruelty to his wife.’ There is half a column of print, but I
know without reading it that it is all perfectly familiar to me. There
is, of course, the other woman, the drink, the push, the blow, the
bruise, the sympathetic sister or landlady. The crudest of writers
could invent nothing more crude.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Indeed, your example is an unfortunate one for your argument,” said
Holmes, taking the paper and glancing his eye down it. “This is the
Dundas separation case, and, as it happens, I was engaged in clearing
up some small points in connection with it. The husband was a
teetotaler, there was no other woman, and the conduct complained of was
that he had drifted into the habit of winding up every meal by taking
out his false teeth and hurling them at his wife, which, you will
allow, is not an action likely to occur to the imagination of the
average story-teller. Take a pinch of snuff, Doctor, and acknowledge
that I have scored over you in your example.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He held out his snuffbox of old gold, with a great amethyst in the
centre of the lid. Its splendour was in such contrast to his homely
ways and simple life that I could not help commenting upon it. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Ah,” said he, “I forgot that I had not seen you for some weeks. It is
a little souvenir from the King of Bohemia in return for my assistance
in the case of the Irene Adler papers.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It was from the reigning family of Holland, though the matter in which
I served them was of such delicacy that I cannot confide it even to
you, who have been good enough to chronicle one or two of my little
problems.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Some ten or twelve, but none which present any feature of interest.
They are important, you understand, without being interesting. Indeed,
I have found that it is usually in unimportant matters that there is a
field for the observation, and for the quick analysis of cause and
effect which gives the charm to an investigation. The larger crimes are
apt to be the simpler, for the bigger the crime the more obvious, as a
rule, is the motive. In these cases, save for one rather intricate
matter which has been referred to me from Marseilles, there is nothing
which presents any features of interest. It is possible, however, that
I may have something better before very many minutes are over, for this
is one of my clients, or I am much mistaken.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He had risen from his chair and was standing between the parted blinds
gazing down into the dull neutral-tinted London street. Looking over
his shoulder, I saw that on the pavement opposite there stood a large
woman with a heavy fur boa round her neck, and a large curling red
feather in a broad-brimmed hat which was tilted in a coquettish Duchess
of Devonshire fashion over her ear. From under this great panoply she
peeped up in a nervous, hesitating fashion at our windows, while her
body oscillated backward and forward, and her fingers fidgeted with her
glove buttons. Suddenly, with a plunge, as of the swimmer who leaves
the bank, she hurried across the road, and we heard the sharp clang of
the bell. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have seen those symptoms before,” said Holmes, throwing his
cigarette into the fire. “Oscillation upon the pavement always means an
_affaire de cœur_. She would like advice, but is not sure that the
matter is not too delicate for communication. And yet even here we may
discriminate. When a woman has been seriously wronged by a man she no
longer oscillates, and the usual symptom is a broken bell wire. Here we
may take it that there is a love matter, but that the maiden is not so
much angry as perplexed, or grieved. But here she comes in person to
resolve our doubts.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As he spoke there was a tap at the door, and the boy in buttons entered
to announce Miss Mary Sutherland, while the lady herself loomed behind
his small black figure like a full-sailed merchant-man behind a tiny
pilot boat. Sherlock Holmes welcomed her with the easy courtesy for
which he was remarkable, and, having closed the door and bowed her into
an armchair, he looked her over in the minute and yet abstracted
fashion which was peculiar to him. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Do you not find,” he said, “that with your short sight it is a little
trying to do so much typewriting?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I did at first,” she answered, “but now I know where the letters are
without looking.” Then, suddenly realising the full purport of his
words, she gave a violent start and looked up, with fear and
astonishment upon her broad, good-humoured face. “You’ve heard about
me, Mr. Holmes,” she cried, “else how could you know all that?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Never mind,” said Holmes, laughing; “it is my business to know things.
Perhaps I have trained myself to see what others overlook. If not, why
should you come to consult me?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I came to you, sir, because I heard of you from Mrs. Etherege, whose
husband you found so easy when the police and everyone had given him up
for dead. Oh, Mr. Holmes, I wish you would do as much for me. I’m not
rich, but still I have a hundred a year in my own right, besides the
little that I make by the machine, and I would give it all to know what
has become of Mr. Hosmer Angel.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Why did you come away to consult me in such a hurry?” asked Sherlock
Holmes, with his finger-tips together and his eyes to the ceiling. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Again a startled look came over the somewhat vacuous face of Miss Mary
Sutherland. “Yes, I did bang out of the house,” she said, “for it made
me angry to see the easy way in which Mr. Windibank—that is, my
father—took it all. He would not go to the police, and he would not go
to you, and so at last, as he would do nothing and kept on saying that
there was no harm done, it made me mad, and I just on with my things
and came right away to you.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, my stepfather. I call him father, though it sounds funny, too,
for he is only five years and two months older than myself.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, yes, mother is alive and well. I wasn’t best pleased, Mr. Holmes,
when she married again so soon after father’s death, and a man who was
nearly fifteen years younger than herself. Father was a plumber in the
Tottenham Court Road, and he left a tidy business behind him, which
mother carried on with Mr. Hardy, the foreman; but when Mr. Windibank
came he made her sell the business, for he was very superior, being a
traveller in wines. They got £ 4700 for the goodwill and interest,
which wasn’t near as much as father could have got if he had been
alive.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I had expected to see Sherlock Holmes impatient under this rambling and
inconsequential narrative, but, on the contrary, he had listened with
the greatest concentration of attention. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, no, sir. It is quite separate and was left me by my uncle Ned in
Auckland. It is in New Zealand stock, paying 4½ per cent. Two thousand
five hundred pounds was the amount, but I can only touch the interest.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You interest me extremely,” said Holmes. “And since you draw so large
a sum as a hundred a year, with what you earn into the bargain, you no
doubt travel a little and indulge yourself in every way. I believe that
a single lady can get on very nicely upon an income of about £ 60.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I could do with much less than that, Mr. Holmes, but you understand
that as long as I live at home I don’t wish to be a burden to them, and
so they have the use of the money just while I am staying with them. Of
course, that is only just for the time. Mr. Windibank draws my interest
every quarter and pays it over to mother, and I find that I can do
pretty well with what I earn at typewriting. It brings me twopence a
sheet, and I can often do from fifteen to twenty sheets in a day.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You have made your position very clear to me,” said Holmes. “This is
my friend, Dr. Watson, before whom you can speak as freely as before
myself. Kindly tell us now all about your connection with Mr. Hosmer
Angel.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> A flush stole over Miss Sutherland’s face, and she picked nervously at
the fringe of her jacket. “I met him first at the gasfitters’ ball,”
she said. “They used to send father tickets when he was alive, and then
afterwards they remembered us, and sent them to mother. Mr. Windibank
did not wish us to go. He never did wish us to go anywhere. He would
get quite mad if I wanted so much as to join a Sunday-school treat. But
this time I was set on going, and I would go; for what right had he to
prevent? He said the folk were not fit for us to know, when all
father’s friends were to be there. And he said that I had nothing fit
to wear, when I had my purple plush that I had never so much as taken
out of the drawer. At last, when nothing else would do, he went off to
France upon the business of the firm, but we went, mother and I, with
Mr. Hardy, who used to be our foreman, and it was there I met Mr.
Hosmer Angel.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I suppose,” said Holmes, “that when Mr. Windibank came back from
France he was very annoyed at your having gone to the ball.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, well, he was very good about it. He laughed, I remember, and
shrugged his shoulders, and said there was no use denying anything to a
woman, for she would have her way.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, sir. I met him that night, and he called next day to ask if we
had got home all safe, and after that we met him—that is to say, Mr.
Holmes, I met him twice for walks, but after that father came back
again, and Mr. Hosmer Angel could not come to the house any more.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, you know father didn’t like anything of the sort. He wouldn’t
have any visitors if he could help it, and he used to say that a woman
should be happy in her own family circle. But then, as I used to say to
mother, a woman wants her own circle to begin with, and I had not got
mine yet.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, father was going off to France again in a week, and Hosmer wrote
and said that it would be safer and better not to see each other until
he had gone. We could write in the meantime, and he used to write every
day. I took the letters in in the morning, so there was no need for
father to know.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, yes, Mr. Holmes. We were engaged after the first walk that we
took. Hosmer—Mr. Angel—was a cashier in an office in Leadenhall
Street—and—” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “To the Leadenhall Street Post Office, to be left till called for. He
said that if they were sent to the office he would be chaffed by all
the other clerks about having letters from a lady, so I offered to
typewrite them, like he did his, but he wouldn’t have that, for he said
that when I wrote them they seemed to come from me, but when they were
typewritten he always felt that the machine had come between us. That
will just show you how fond he was of me, Mr. Holmes, and the little
things that he would think of.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It was most suggestive,” said Holmes. “It has long been an axiom of
mine that the little things are infinitely the most important. Can you
remember any other little things about Mr. Hosmer Angel?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He was a very shy man, Mr. Holmes. He would rather walk with me in the
evening than in the daylight, for he said that he hated to be
conspicuous. Very retiring and gentlemanly he was. Even his voice was
gentle. He’d had the quinsy and swollen glands when he was young, he
told me, and it had left him with a weak throat, and a hesitating,
whispering fashion of speech. He was always well dressed, very neat and
plain, but his eyes were weak, just as mine are, and he wore tinted
glasses against the glare.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Mr. Hosmer Angel came to the house again and proposed that we should
marry before father came back. He was in dreadful earnest and made me
swear, with my hands on the Testament, that whatever happened I would
always be true to him. Mother said he was quite right to make me swear,
and that it was a sign of his passion. Mother was all in his favour
from the first and was even fonder of him than I was. Then, when they
talked of marrying within the week, I began to ask about father; but
they both said never to mind about father, but just to tell him
afterwards, and mother said she would make it all right with him. I
didn’t quite like that, Mr. Holmes. It seemed funny that I should ask
his leave, as he was only a few years older than me; but I didn’t want
to do anything on the sly, so I wrote to father at Bordeaux, where the
company has its French offices, but the letter came back to me on the
very morning of the wedding.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, sir, but very quietly. It was to be at St. Saviour’s, near King’s
Cross, and we were to have breakfast afterwards at the St. Pancras
Hotel. Hosmer came for us in a hansom, but as there were two of us he
put us both into it and stepped himself into a four-wheeler, which
happened to be the only other cab in the street. We got to the church
first, and when the four-wheeler drove up we waited for him to step
out, but he never did, and when the cabman got down from the box and
looked there was no one there! The cabman said that he could not
imagine what had become of him, for he had seen him get in with his own
eyes. That was last Friday, Mr. Holmes, and I have never seen or heard
anything since then to throw any light upon what became of him.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, no, sir! He was too good and kind to leave me so. Why, all the
morning he was saying to me that, whatever happened, I was to be true;
and that even if something quite unforeseen occurred to separate us, I
was always to remember that I was pledged to him, and that he would
claim his pledge sooner or later. It seemed strange talk for a
wedding-morning, but what has happened since gives a meaning to it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, sir. I believe that he foresaw some danger, or else he would not
have talked so. And then I think that what he foresaw happened.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes; and he seemed to think, with me, that something had happened, and
that I should hear of Hosmer again. As he said, what interest could
anyone have in bringing me to the doors of the church, and then leaving
me? Now, if he had borrowed my money, or if he had married me and got
my money settled on him, there might be some reason, but Hosmer was
very independent about money and never would look at a shilling of
mine. And yet, what could have happened? And why could he not write?
Oh, it drives me half-mad to think of it, and I can’t sleep a wink at
night.” She pulled a little handkerchief out of her muff and began to
sob heavily into it. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I shall glance into the case for you,” said Holmes, rising, “and I
have no doubt that we shall reach some definite result. Let the weight
of the matter rest upon me now, and do not let your mind dwell upon it
further. Above all, try to let Mr. Hosmer Angel vanish from your
memory, as he has done from your life.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You will leave that question in my hands. I should like an accurate
description of him and any letters of his which you can spare.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I advertised for him in last Saturday’s _Chronicle_,” said she. “Here
is the slip and here are four letters from him.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Thank you. You have made your statement very clearly. You will leave
the papers here, and remember the advice which I have given you. Let
the whole incident be a sealed book, and do not allow it to affect your
life.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You are very kind, Mr. Holmes, but I cannot do that. I shall be true
to Hosmer. He shall find me ready when he comes back.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> For all the preposterous hat and the vacuous face, there was something
noble in the simple faith of our visitor which compelled our respect.
She laid her little bundle of papers upon the table and went her way,
with a promise to come again whenever she might be summoned. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Sherlock Holmes sat silent for a few minutes with his fingertips still
pressed together, his legs stretched out in front of him, and his gaze
directed upward to the ceiling. Then he took down from the rack the old
and oily clay pipe, which was to him as a counsellor, and, having lit
it, he leaned back in his chair, with the thick blue cloud-wreaths
spinning up from him, and a look of infinite languor in his face. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Quite an interesting study, that maiden,” he observed. “I found her
more interesting than her little problem, which, by the way, is rather
a trite one. You will find parallel cases, if you consult my index, in
Andover in ’77, and there was something of the sort at The Hague last
year. Old as is the idea, however, there were one or two details which
were new to me. But the maiden herself was most instructive.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Not invisible but unnoticed, Watson. You did not know where to look,
and so you missed all that was important. I can never bring you to
realise the importance of sleeves, the suggestiveness of thumb-nails,
or the great issues that may hang from a boot-lace. Now, what did you
gather from that woman’s appearance? Describe it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, she had a slate-coloured, broad-brimmed straw hat, with a
feather of a brickish red. Her jacket was black, with black beads sewn
upon it, and a fringe of little black jet ornaments. Her dress was
brown, rather darker than coffee colour, with a little purple plush at
the neck and sleeves. Her gloves were greyish and were worn through at
the right forefinger. Her boots I didn’t observe. She had small round,
hanging gold earrings, and a general air of being fairly well-to-do in
a vulgar, comfortable, easy-going way.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “’Pon my word, Watson, you are coming along wonderfully. You have
really done very well indeed. It is true that you have missed
everything of importance, but you have hit upon the method, and you
have a quick eye for colour. Never trust to general impressions, my
boy, but concentrate yourself upon details. My first glance is always
at a woman’s sleeve. In a man it is perhaps better first to take the
knee of the trouser. As you observe, this woman had plush upon her
sleeves, which is a most useful material for showing traces. The double
line a little above the wrist, where the typewritist presses against
the table, was beautifully defined. The sewing-machine, of the hand
type, leaves a similar mark, but only on the left arm, and on the side
of it farthest from the thumb, instead of being right across the
broadest part, as this was. I then glanced at her face, and, observing
the dint of a pince-nez at either side of her nose, I ventured a remark
upon short sight and typewriting, which seemed to surprise her.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But, surely, it was obvious. I was then much surprised and interested
on glancing down to observe that, though the boots which she was
wearing were not unlike each other, they were really odd ones; the one
having a slightly decorated toe-cap, and the other a plain one. One was
buttoned only in the two lower buttons out of five, and the other at
the first, third, and fifth. Now, when you see that a young lady,
otherwise neatly dressed, has come away from home with odd boots,
half-buttoned, it is no great deduction to say that she came away in a
hurry.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I noted, in passing, that she had written a note before leaving home
but after being fully dressed. You observed that her right glove was
torn at the forefinger, but you did not apparently see that both glove
and finger were stained with violet ink. She had written in a hurry and
dipped her pen too deep. It must have been this morning, or the mark
would not remain clear upon the finger. All this is amusing, though
rather elementary, but I must go back to business, Watson. Would you
mind reading me the advertised description of Mr. Hosmer Angel?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I held the little printed slip to the light. “Missing,” it said, “on
the morning of the fourteenth, a gentleman named Hosmer Angel. About
five ft. seven in. in height; strongly built, sallow complexion, black
hair, a little bald in the centre, bushy, black side-whiskers and
moustache; tinted glasses, slight infirmity of speech. Was dressed,
when last seen, in black frock-coat faced with silk, black waistcoat,
gold Albert chain, and grey Harris tweed trousers, with brown gaiters
over elastic-sided boots. Known to have been employed in an office in
Leadenhall Street. Anybody bringing,” &c, &c. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That will do,” said Holmes. “As to the letters,” he continued,
glancing over them, “they are very commonplace. Absolutely no clue in
them to Mr. Angel, save that he quotes Balzac once. There is one
remarkable point, however, which will no doubt strike you.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Not only that, but the signature is typewritten. Look at the neat
little ‘Hosmer Angel’ at the bottom. There is a date, you see, but no
superscription except Leadenhall Street, which is rather vague. The
point about the signature is very suggestive—in fact, we may call it
conclusive.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I cannot say that I do unless it were that he wished to be able to
deny his signature if an action for breach of promise were instituted.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No, that was not the point. However, I shall write two letters, which
should settle the matter. One is to a firm in the City, the other is to
the young lady’s stepfather, Mr. Windibank, asking him whether he could
meet us here at six o’clock to-morrow evening. It is just as well that
we should do business with the male relatives. And now, Doctor, we can
do nothing until the answers to those letters come, so we may put our
little problem upon the shelf for the interim.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I had had so many reasons to believe in my friend’s subtle powers of
reasoning and extraordinary energy in action that I felt that he must
have some solid grounds for the assured and easy demeanour with which
he treated the singular mystery which he had been called upon to
fathom. Once only had I known him to fail, in the case of the King of
Bohemia and of the Irene Adler photograph; but when I looked back to
the weird business of the Sign of Four, and the extraordinary
circumstances connected with the Study in Scarlet, I felt that it would
be a strange tangle indeed which he could not unravel. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I left him then, still puffing at his black clay pipe, with the
conviction that when I came again on the next evening I would find that
he held in his hands all the clues which would lead up to the identity
of the disappearing bridegroom of Miss Mary Sutherland. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> A professional case of great gravity was engaging my own attention at
the time, and the whole of next day I was busy at the bedside of the
sufferer. It was not until close upon six o’clock that I found myself
free and was able to spring into a hansom and drive to Baker Street,
half afraid that I might be too late to assist at the _dénouement_ of
the little mystery. I found Sherlock Holmes alone, however, half
asleep, with his long, thin form curled up in the recesses of his
armchair. A formidable array of bottles and test-tubes, with the
pungent cleanly smell of hydrochloric acid, told me that he had spent
his day in the chemical work which was so dear to him. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, that! I thought of the salt that I have been working upon. There
was never any mystery in the matter, though, as I said yesterday, some
of the details are of interest. The only drawback is that there is no
law, I fear, that can touch the scoundrel.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The question was hardly out of my mouth, and Holmes had not yet opened
his lips to reply, when we heard a heavy footfall in the passage and a
tap at the door. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This is the girl’s stepfather, Mr. James Windibank,” said Holmes. “He
has written to me to say that he would be here at six. Come in!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The man who entered was a sturdy, middle-sized fellow, some thirty
years of age, clean-shaven, and sallow-skinned, with a bland,
insinuating manner, and a pair of wonderfully sharp and penetrating
grey eyes. He shot a questioning glance at each of us, placed his shiny
top-hat upon the sideboard, and with a slight bow sidled down into the
nearest chair. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Good-evening, Mr. James Windibank,” said Holmes. “I think that this
typewritten letter is from you, in which you made an appointment with
me for six o’clock?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, sir. I am afraid that I am a little late, but I am not quite my
own master, you know. I am sorry that Miss Sutherland has troubled you
about this little matter, for I think it is far better not to wash
linen of the sort in public. It was quite against my wishes that she
came, but she is a very excitable, impulsive girl, as you may have
noticed, and she is not easily controlled when she has made up her mind
on a point. Of course, I did not mind you so much, as you are not
connected with the official police, but it is not pleasant to have a
family misfortune like this noised abroad. Besides, it is a useless
expense, for how could you possibly find this Hosmer Angel?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “On the contrary,” said Holmes quietly; “I have every reason to believe
that I will succeed in discovering Mr. Hosmer Angel.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is a curious thing,” remarked Holmes, “that a typewriter has really
quite as much individuality as a man’s handwriting. Unless they are
quite new, no two of them write exactly alike. Some letters get more
worn than others, and some wear only on one side. Now, you remark in
this note of yours, Mr. Windibank, that in every case there is some
little slurring over of the ‘e,’ and a slight defect in the tail of the
‘r.’ There are fourteen other characteristics, but those are the more
obvious.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “We do all our correspondence with this machine at the office, and no
doubt it is a little worn,” our visitor answered, glancing keenly at
Holmes with his bright little eyes. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And now I will show you what is really a very interesting study, Mr.
Windibank,” Holmes continued. “I think of writing another little
monograph some of these days on the typewriter and its relation to
crime. It is a subject to which I have devoted some little attention. I
have here four letters which purport to come from the missing man. They
are all typewritten. In each case, not only are the ‘e’s’ slurred and
the ‘r’s’ tailless, but you will observe, if you care to use my
magnifying lens, that the fourteen other characteristics to which I
have alluded are there as well.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Windibank sprang out of his chair and picked up his hat. “I cannot
waste time over this sort of fantastic talk, Mr. Holmes,” he said. “If
you can catch the man, catch him, and let me know when you have done
it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Certainly,” said Holmes, stepping over and turning the key in the
door. “I let you know, then, that I have caught him!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, it won’t do—really it won’t,” said Holmes suavely. “There is no
possible getting out of it, Mr. Windibank. It is quite too transparent,
and it was a very bad compliment when you said that it was impossible
for me to solve so simple a question. That’s right! Sit down and let us
talk it over.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Our visitor collapsed into a chair, with a ghastly face and a glitter
of moisture on his brow. “It—it’s not actionable,” he stammered. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am very much afraid that it is not. But between ourselves,
Windibank, it was as cruel and selfish and heartless a trick in a petty
way as ever came before me. Now, let me just run over the course of
events, and you will contradict me if I go wrong.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The man sat huddled up in his chair, with his head sunk upon his
breast, like one who is utterly crushed. Holmes stuck his feet up on
the corner of the mantelpiece and, leaning back with his hands in his
pockets, began talking, rather to himself, as it seemed, than to us. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The man married a woman very much older than himself for her money,”
said he, “and he enjoyed the use of the money of the daughter as long
as she lived with them. It was a considerable sum, for people in their
position, and the loss of it would have made a serious difference. It
was worth an effort to preserve it. The daughter was of a good, amiable
disposition, but affectionate and warm-hearted in her ways, so that it
was evident that with her fair personal advantages, and her little
income, she would not be allowed to remain single long. Now her
marriage would mean, of course, the loss of a hundred a year, so what
does her stepfather do to prevent it? He takes the obvious course of
keeping her at home and forbidding her to seek the company of people of
her own age. But soon he found that that would not answer forever. She
became restive, insisted upon her rights, and finally announced her
positive intention of going to a certain ball. What does her clever
stepfather do then? He conceives an idea more creditable to his head
than to his heart. With the connivance and assistance of his wife he
disguised himself, covered those keen eyes with tinted glasses, masked
the face with a moustache and a pair of bushy whiskers, sunk that clear
voice into an insinuating whisper, and doubly secure on account of the
girl’s short sight, he appears as Mr. Hosmer Angel, and keeps off other
lovers by making love himself.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It was only a joke at first,” groaned our visitor. “We never thought
that she would have been so carried away.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Very likely not. However that may be, the young lady was very
decidedly carried away, and, having quite made up her mind that her
stepfather was in France, the suspicion of treachery never for an
instant entered her mind. She was flattered by the gentleman’s
attentions, and the effect was increased by the loudly expressed
admiration of her mother. Then Mr. Angel began to call, for it was
obvious that the matter should be pushed as far as it would go if a
real effect were to be produced. There were meetings, and an
engagement, which would finally secure the girl’s affections from
turning towards anyone else. But the deception could not be kept up
forever. These pretended journeys to France were rather cumbrous. The
thing to do was clearly to bring the business to an end in such a
dramatic manner that it would leave a permanent impression upon the
young lady’s mind and prevent her from looking upon any other suitor
for some time to come. Hence those vows of fidelity exacted upon a
Testament, and hence also the allusions to a possibility of something
happening on the very morning of the wedding. James Windibank wished
Miss Sutherland to be so bound to Hosmer Angel, and so uncertain as to
his fate, that for ten years to come, at any rate, she would not listen
to another man. As far as the church door he brought her, and then, as
he could go no farther, he conveniently vanished away by the old trick
of stepping in at one door of a four-wheeler and out at the other. I
think that was the chain of events, Mr. Windibank!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Our visitor had recovered something of his assurance while Holmes had
been talking, and he rose from his chair now with a cold sneer upon his
pale face. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It may be so, or it may not, Mr. Holmes,” said he, “but if you are so
very sharp you ought to be sharp enough to know that it is you who are
breaking the law now, and not me. I have done nothing actionable from
the first, but as long as you keep that door locked you lay yourself
open to an action for assault and illegal constraint.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The law cannot, as you say, touch you,” said Holmes, unlocking and
throwing open the door, “yet there never was a man who deserved
punishment more. If the young lady has a brother or a friend, he ought
to lay a whip across your shoulders. By Jove!” he continued, flushing
up at the sight of the bitter sneer upon the man’s face, “it is not
part of my duties to my client, but here’s a hunting crop handy, and I
think I shall just treat myself to—” He took two swift steps to the
whip, but before he could grasp it there was a wild clatter of steps
upon the stairs, the heavy hall door banged, and from the window we
could see Mr. James Windibank running at the top of his speed down the
road. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “There’s a cold-blooded scoundrel!” said Holmes, laughing, as he threw
himself down into his chair once more. “That fellow will rise from
crime to crime until he does something very bad, and ends on a gallows.
The case has, in some respects, been not entirely devoid of interest.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, of course it was obvious from the first that this Mr. Hosmer
Angel must have some strong object for his curious conduct, and it was
equally clear that the only man who really profited by the incident, as
far as we could see, was the stepfather. Then the fact that the two men
were never together, but that the one always appeared when the other
was away, was suggestive. So were the tinted spectacles and the curious
voice, which both hinted at a disguise, as did the bushy whiskers. My
suspicions were all confirmed by his peculiar action in typewriting his
signature, which, of course, inferred that his handwriting was so
familiar to her that she would recognise even the smallest sample of
it. You see all these isolated facts, together with many minor ones,
all pointed in the same direction.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Having once spotted my man, it was easy to get corroboration. I knew
the firm for which this man worked. Having taken the printed
description. I eliminated everything from it which could be the result
of a disguise—the whiskers, the glasses, the voice, and I sent it to
the firm, with a request that they would inform me whether it answered
to the description of any of their travellers. I had already noticed
the peculiarities of the typewriter, and I wrote to the man himself at
his business address asking him if he would come here. As I expected,
his reply was typewritten and revealed the same trivial but
characteristic defects. The same post brought me a letter from
Westhouse & Marbank, of Fenchurch Street, to say that the description
tallied in every respect with that of their employé, James Windibank.
_Voilà tout_!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If I tell her she will not believe me. You may remember the old
Persian saying, ‘There is danger for him who taketh the tiger cub, and
danger also for whoso snatches a delusion from a woman.’ There is as
much sense in Hafiz as in Horace, and as much knowledge of the world.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We were seated at breakfast one morning, my wife and I, when the maid
brought in a telegram. It was from Sherlock Holmes and ran in this way: </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Have you a couple of days to spare? Have just been wired for from the
west of England in connection with Boscombe Valley tragedy. Shall be
glad if you will come with me. Air and scenery perfect. Leave
Paddington by the 11:15.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, Anstruther would do your work for you. You have been looking a
little pale lately. I think that the change would do you good, and you
are always so interested in Mr. Sherlock Holmes’ cases.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I should be ungrateful if I were not, seeing what I gained through one
of them,” I answered. “But if I am to go, I must pack at once, for I
have only half an hour.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> My experience of camp life in Afghanistan had at least had the effect
of making me a prompt and ready traveller. My wants were few and
simple, so that in less than the time stated I was in a cab with my
valise, rattling away to Paddington Station. Sherlock Holmes was pacing
up and down the platform, his tall, gaunt figure made even gaunter and
taller by his long grey travelling-cloak and close-fitting cloth cap. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is really very good of you to come, Watson,” said he. “It makes a
considerable difference to me, having someone with me on whom I can
thoroughly rely. Local aid is always either worthless or else biassed.
If you will keep the two corner seats I shall get the tickets.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We had the carriage to ourselves save for an immense litter of papers
which Holmes had brought with him. Among these he rummaged and read,
with intervals of note-taking and of meditation, until we were past
Reading. Then he suddenly rolled them all into a gigantic ball and
tossed them up onto the rack. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The London press has not had very full accounts. I have just been
looking through all the recent papers in order to master the
particulars. It seems, from what I gather, to be one of those simple
cases which are so extremely difficult.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But it is profoundly true. Singularity is almost invariably a clue.
The more featureless and commonplace a crime is, the more difficult it
is to bring it home. In this case, however, they have established a
very serious case against the son of the murdered man.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, it is conjectured to be so. I shall take nothing for granted
until I have the opportunity of looking personally into it. I will
explain the state of things to you, as far as I have been able to
understand it, in a very few words. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Boscombe Valley is a country district not very far from Ross, in
Herefordshire. The largest landed proprietor in that part is a Mr. John
Turner, who made his money in Australia and returned some years ago to
the old country. One of the farms which he held, that of Hatherley, was
let to Mr. Charles McCarthy, who was also an ex-Australian. The men had
known each other in the colonies, so that it was not unnatural that
when they came to settle down they should do so as near each other as
possible. Turner was apparently the richer man, so McCarthy became his
tenant but still remained, it seems, upon terms of perfect equality, as
they were frequently together. McCarthy had one son, a lad of eighteen,
and Turner had an only daughter of the same age, but neither of them
had wives living. They appear to have avoided the society of the
neighbouring English families and to have led retired lives, though
both the McCarthys were fond of sport and were frequently seen at the
race-meetings of the neighbourhood. McCarthy kept two servants—a man
and a girl. Turner had a considerable household, some half-dozen at the
least. That is as much as I have been able to gather about the
families. Now for the facts. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “On June 3rd, that is, on Monday last, McCarthy left his house at
Hatherley about three in the afternoon and walked down to the Boscombe
Pool, which is a small lake formed by the spreading out of the stream
which runs down the Boscombe Valley. He had been out with his
serving-man in the morning at Ross, and he had told the man that he
must hurry, as he had an appointment of importance to keep at three.
From that appointment he never came back alive. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “From Hatherley Farmhouse to the Boscombe Pool is a quarter of a mile,
and two people saw him as he passed over this ground. One was an old
woman, whose name is not mentioned, and the other was William Crowder,
a game-keeper in the employ of Mr. Turner. Both these witnesses depose
that Mr. McCarthy was walking alone. The game-keeper adds that within a
few minutes of his seeing Mr. McCarthy pass he had seen his son, Mr.
James McCarthy, going the same way with a gun under his arm. To the
best of his belief, the father was actually in sight at the time, and
the son was following him. He thought no more of the matter until he
heard in the evening of the tragedy that had occurred. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The two McCarthys were seen after the time when William Crowder, the
game-keeper, lost sight of them. The Boscombe Pool is thickly wooded
round, with just a fringe of grass and of reeds round the edge. A girl
of fourteen, Patience Moran, who is the daughter of the lodge-keeper of
the Boscombe Valley estate, was in one of the woods picking flowers.
She states that while she was there she saw, at the border of the wood
and close by the lake, Mr. McCarthy and his son, and that they appeared
to be having a violent quarrel. She heard Mr. McCarthy the elder using
very strong language to his son, and she saw the latter raise up his
hand as if to strike his father. She was so frightened by their
violence that she ran away and told her mother when she reached home
that she had left the two McCarthys quarrelling near Boscombe Pool, and
that she was afraid that they were going to fight. She had hardly said
the words when young Mr. McCarthy came running up to the lodge to say
that he had found his father dead in the wood, and to ask for the help
of the lodge-keeper. He was much excited, without either his gun or his
hat, and his right hand and sleeve were observed to be stained with
fresh blood. On following him they found the dead body stretched out
upon the grass beside the pool. The head had been beaten in by repeated
blows of some heavy and blunt weapon. The injuries were such as might
very well have been inflicted by the butt-end of his son’s gun, which
was found lying on the grass within a few paces of the body. Under
these circumstances the young man was instantly arrested, and a verdict
of ‘wilful murder’ having been returned at the inquest on Tuesday, he
was on Wednesday brought before the magistrates at Ross, who have
referred the case to the next Assizes. Those are the main facts of the
case as they came out before the coroner and the police-court.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I could hardly imagine a more damning case,” I remarked. “If ever
circumstantial evidence pointed to a criminal it does so here.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Circumstantial evidence is a very tricky thing,” answered Holmes
thoughtfully. “It may seem to point very straight to one thing, but if
you shift your own point of view a little, you may find it pointing in
an equally uncompromising manner to something entirely different. It
must be confessed, however, that the case looks exceedingly grave
against the young man, and it is very possible that he is indeed the
culprit. There are several people in the neighbourhood, however, and
among them Miss Turner, the daughter of the neighbouring landowner, who
believe in his innocence, and who have retained Lestrade, whom you may
recollect in connection with the Study in Scarlet, to work out the case
in his interest. Lestrade, being rather puzzled, has referred the case
to me, and hence it is that two middle-aged gentlemen are flying
westward at fifty miles an hour instead of quietly digesting their
breakfasts at home.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am afraid,” said I, “that the facts are so obvious that you will
find little credit to be gained out of this case.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “There is nothing more deceptive than an obvious fact,” he answered,
laughing. “Besides, we may chance to hit upon some other obvious facts
which may have been by no means obvious to Mr. Lestrade. You know me
too well to think that I am boasting when I say that I shall either
confirm or destroy his theory by means which he is quite incapable of
employing, or even of understanding. To take the first example to hand,
I very clearly perceive that in your bedroom the window is upon the
right-hand side, and yet I question whether Mr. Lestrade would have
noted even so self-evident a thing as that.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My dear fellow, I know you well. I know the military neatness which
characterises you. You shave every morning, and in this season you
shave by the sunlight; but since your shaving is less and less complete
as we get farther back on the left side, until it becomes positively
slovenly as we get round the angle of the jaw, it is surely very clear
that that side is less illuminated than the other. I could not imagine
a man of your habits looking at himself in an equal light and being
satisfied with such a result. I only quote this as a trivial example of
observation and inference. Therein lies my _métier_, and it is just
possible that it may be of some service in the investigation which lies
before us. There are one or two minor points which were brought out in
the inquest, and which are worth considering.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It appears that his arrest did not take place at once, but after the
return to Hatherley Farm. On the inspector of constabulary informing
him that he was a prisoner, he remarked that he was not surprised to
hear it, and that it was no more than his deserts. This observation of
his had the natural effect of removing any traces of doubt which might
have remained in the minds of the coroner’s jury.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “On the contrary,” said Holmes, “it is the brightest rift which I can
at present see in the clouds. However innocent he might be, he could
not be such an absolute imbecile as not to see that the circumstances
were very black against him. Had he appeared surprised at his own
arrest, or feigned indignation at it, I should have looked upon it as
highly suspicious, because such surprise or anger would not be natural
under the circumstances, and yet might appear to be the best policy to
a scheming man. His frank acceptance of the situation marks him as
either an innocent man, or else as a man of considerable self-restraint
and firmness. As to his remark about his deserts, it was also not
unnatural if you consider that he stood beside the dead body of his
father, and that there is no doubt that he had that very day so far
forgotten his filial duty as to bandy words with him, and even,
according to the little girl whose evidence is so important, to raise
his hand as if to strike him. The self-reproach and contrition which
are displayed in his remark appear to me to be the signs of a healthy
mind rather than of a guilty one.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is, I am afraid, not very encouraging to his supporters, though
there are one or two points in it which are suggestive. You will find
it here, and may read it for yourself.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He picked out from his bundle a copy of the local Herefordshire paper,
and having turned down the sheet he pointed out the paragraph in which
the unfortunate young man had given his own statement of what had
occurred. I settled myself down in the corner of the carriage and read
it very carefully. It ran in this way: </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Mr. James McCarthy, the only son of the deceased, was then called and
gave evidence as follows: ‘I had been away from home for three days at
Bristol, and had only just returned upon the morning of last Monday,
the 3rd. My father was absent from home at the time of my arrival, and
I was informed by the maid that he had driven over to Ross with John
Cobb, the groom. Shortly after my return I heard the wheels of his trap
in the yard, and, looking out of my window, I saw him get out and walk
rapidly out of the yard, though I was not aware in which direction he
was going. I then took my gun and strolled out in the direction of the
Boscombe Pool, with the intention of visiting the rabbit warren which
is upon the other side. On my way I saw William Crowder, the
game-keeper, as he had stated in his evidence; but he is mistaken in
thinking that I was following my father. I had no idea that he was in
front of me. When about a hundred yards from the pool I heard a cry of
“Cooee!” which was a usual signal between my father and myself. I then
hurried forward, and found him standing by the pool. He appeared to be
much surprised at seeing me and asked me rather roughly what I was
doing there. A conversation ensued which led to high words and almost
to blows, for my father was a man of a very violent temper. Seeing that
his passion was becoming ungovernable, I left him and returned towards
Hatherley Farm. I had not gone more than 150 yards, however, when I
heard a hideous outcry behind me, which caused me to run back again. I
found my father expiring upon the ground, with his head terribly
injured. I dropped my gun and held him in my arms, but he almost
instantly expired. I knelt beside him for some minutes, and then made
my way to Mr. Turner’s lodge-keeper, his house being the nearest, to
ask for assistance. I saw no one near my father when I returned, and I
have no idea how he came by his injuries. He was not a popular man,
being somewhat cold and forbidding in his manners, but he had, as far
as I know, no active enemies. I know nothing further of the matter.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Witness: It is really impossible for me to tell you. I can assure you
that it has nothing to do with the sad tragedy which followed. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The Coroner: That is for the court to decide. I need not point out to
you that your refusal to answer will prejudice your case considerably
in any future proceedings which may arise. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The Coroner: How was it, then, that he uttered it before he saw you,
and before he even knew that you had returned from Bristol? </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “A Juryman: Did you see nothing which aroused your suspicions when you
returned on hearing the cry and found your father fatally injured? </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Witness: I was so disturbed and excited as I rushed out into the open,
that I could think of nothing except of my father. Yet I have a vague
impression that as I ran forward something lay upon the ground to the
left of me. It seemed to me to be something grey in colour, a coat of
some sort, or a plaid perhaps. When I rose from my father I looked
round for it, but it was gone. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I see,” said I as I glanced down the column, “that the coroner in his
concluding remarks was rather severe upon young McCarthy. He calls
attention, and with reason, to the discrepancy about his father having
signalled to him before seeing him, also to his refusal to give details
of his conversation with his father, and his singular account of his
father’s dying words. They are all, as he remarks, very much against
the son.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Holmes laughed softly to himself and stretched himself out upon the
cushioned seat. “Both you and the coroner have been at some pains,”
said he, “to single out the very strongest points in the young man’s
favour. Don’t you see that you alternately give him credit for having
too much imagination and too little? Too little, if he could not invent
a cause of quarrel which would give him the sympathy of the jury; too
much, if he evolved from his own inner consciousness anything so
_outré_ as a dying reference to a rat, and the incident of the
vanishing cloth. No, sir, I shall approach this case from the point of
view that what this young man says is true, and we shall see whither
that hypothesis will lead us. And now here is my pocket Petrarch, and
not another word shall I say of this case until we are on the scene of
action. We lunch at Swindon, and I see that we shall be there in twenty
minutes.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was nearly four o’clock when we at last, after passing through the
beautiful Stroud Valley, and over the broad gleaming Severn, found
ourselves at the pretty little country-town of Ross. A lean,
ferret-like man, furtive and sly-looking, was waiting for us upon the
platform. In spite of the light brown dustcoat and leather-leggings
which he wore in deference to his rustic surroundings, I had no
difficulty in recognising Lestrade, of Scotland Yard. With him we drove
to the Hereford Arms where a room had already been engaged for us. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have ordered a carriage,” said Lestrade as we sat over a cup of tea.
“I knew your energetic nature, and that you would not be happy until
you had been on the scene of the crime.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “How is the glass? Twenty-nine, I see. No wind, and not a cloud in the
sky. I have a caseful of cigarettes here which need smoking, and the
sofa is very much superior to the usual country hotel abomination. I do
not think that it is probable that I shall use the carriage to-night.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Lestrade laughed indulgently. “You have, no doubt, already formed your
conclusions from the newspapers,” he said. “The case is as plain as a
pikestaff, and the more one goes into it the plainer it becomes. Still,
of course, one can’t refuse a lady, and such a very positive one, too.
She has heard of you, and would have your opinion, though I repeatedly
told her that there was nothing which you could do which I had not
already done. Why, bless my soul! here is her carriage at the door.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He had hardly spoken before there rushed into the room one of the most
lovely young women that I have ever seen in my life. Her violet eyes
shining, her lips parted, a pink flush upon her cheeks, all thought of
her natural reserve lost in her overpowering excitement and concern. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, Mr. Sherlock Holmes!” she cried, glancing from one to the other of
us, and finally, with a woman’s quick intuition, fastening upon my
companion, “I am so glad that you have come. I have driven down to tell
you so. I know that James didn’t do it. I know it, and I want you to
start upon your work knowing it, too. Never let yourself doubt upon
that point. We have known each other since we were little children, and
I know his faults as no one else does; but he is too tender-hearted to
hurt a fly. Such a charge is absurd to anyone who really knows him.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I hope we may clear him, Miss Turner,” said Sherlock Holmes. “You may
rely upon my doing all that I can.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But you have read the evidence. You have formed some conclusion? Do
you not see some loophole, some flaw? Do you not yourself think that he
is innocent?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Lestrade shrugged his shoulders. “I am afraid that my colleague has
been a little quick in forming his conclusions,” he said. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But he is right. Oh! I know that he is right. James never did it. And
about his quarrel with his father, I am sure that the reason why he
would not speak about it to the coroner was because I was concerned in
it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is no time for me to hide anything. James and his father had many
disagreements about me. Mr. McCarthy was very anxious that there should
be a marriage between us. James and I have always loved each other as
brother and sister; but of course he is young and has seen very little
of life yet, and—and—well, he naturally did not wish to do anything
like that yet. So there were quarrels, and this, I am sure, was one of
them.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No, he was averse to it also. No one but Mr. McCarthy was in favour of
it.” A quick blush passed over her fresh young face as Holmes shot one
of his keen, questioning glances at her. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, have you not heard? Poor father has never been strong for years
back, but this has broken him down completely. He has taken to his bed,
and Dr. Willows says that he is a wreck and that his nervous system is
shattered. Mr. McCarthy was the only man alive who had known dad in the
old days in Victoria.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You will tell me if you have any news to-morrow. No doubt you will go
to the prison to see James. Oh, if you do, Mr. Holmes, do tell him that
I know him to be innocent.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I must go home now, for dad is very ill, and he misses me so if I
leave him. Good-bye, and God help you in your undertaking.” She hurried
from the room as impulsively as she had entered, and we heard the
wheels of her carriage rattle off down the street. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am ashamed of you, Holmes,” said Lestrade with dignity after a few
minutes’ silence. “Why should you raise up hopes which you are bound to
disappoint? I am not over-tender of heart, but I call it cruel.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I think that I see my way to clearing James McCarthy,” said Holmes.
“Have you an order to see him in prison?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Then I shall reconsider my resolution about going out. We have still
time to take a train to Hereford and see him to-night?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Then let us do so. Watson, I fear that you will find it very slow, but
I shall only be away a couple of hours.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I walked down to the station with them, and then wandered through the
streets of the little town, finally returning to the hotel, where I lay
upon the sofa and tried to interest myself in a yellow-backed novel.
The puny plot of the story was so thin, however, when compared to the
deep mystery through which we were groping, and I found my attention
wander so continually from the action to the fact, that I at last flung
it across the room and gave myself up entirely to a consideration of
the events of the day. Supposing that this unhappy young man’s story
were absolutely true, then what hellish thing, what absolutely
unforeseen and extraordinary calamity could have occurred between the
time when he parted from his father, and the moment when, drawn back by
his screams, he rushed into the glade? It was something terrible and
deadly. What could it be? Might not the nature of the injuries reveal
something to my medical instincts? I rang the bell and called for the
weekly county paper, which contained a verbatim account of the inquest.
In the surgeon’s deposition it was stated that the posterior third of
the left parietal bone and the left half of the occipital bone had been
shattered by a heavy blow from a blunt weapon. I marked the spot upon
my own head. Clearly such a blow must have been struck from behind.
That was to some extent in favour of the accused, as when seen
quarrelling he was face to face with his father. Still, it did not go
for very much, for the older man might have turned his back before the
blow fell. Still, it might be worth while to call Holmes’ attention to
it. Then there was the peculiar dying reference to a rat. What could
that mean? It could not be delirium. A man dying from a sudden blow
does not commonly become delirious. No, it was more likely to be an
attempt to explain how he met his fate. But what could it indicate? I
cudgelled my brains to find some possible explanation. And then the
incident of the grey cloth seen by young McCarthy. If that were true
the murderer must have dropped some part of his dress, presumably his
overcoat, in his flight, and must have had the hardihood to return and
to carry it away at the instant when the son was kneeling with his back
turned not a dozen paces off. What a tissue of mysteries and
improbabilities the whole thing was! I did not wonder at Lestrade’s
opinion, and yet I had so much faith in Sherlock Holmes’ insight that I
could not lose hope as long as every fresh fact seemed to strengthen
his conviction of young McCarthy’s innocence. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The glass still keeps very high,” he remarked as he sat down. “It is
of importance that it should not rain before we are able to go over the
ground. On the other hand, a man should be at his very best and keenest
for such nice work as that, and I did not wish to do it when fagged by
a long journey. I have seen young McCarthy.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “None at all. I was inclined to think at one time that he knew who had
done it and was screening him or her, but I am convinced now that he is
as puzzled as everyone else. He is not a very quick-witted youth,
though comely to look at and, I should think, sound at heart.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I cannot admire his taste,” I remarked, “if it is indeed a fact that
he was averse to a marriage with so charming a young lady as this Miss
Turner.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Ah, thereby hangs a rather painful tale. This fellow is madly,
insanely, in love with her, but some two years ago, when he was only a
lad, and before he really knew her, for she had been away five years at
a boarding-school, what does the idiot do but get into the clutches of
a barmaid in Bristol and marry her at a registry office? No one knows a
word of the matter, but you can imagine how maddening it must be to him
to be upbraided for not doing what he would give his very eyes to do,
but what he knows to be absolutely impossible. It was sheer frenzy of
this sort which made him throw his hands up into the air when his
father, at their last interview, was goading him on to propose to Miss
Turner. On the other hand, he had no means of supporting himself, and
his father, who was by all accounts a very hard man, would have thrown
him over utterly had he known the truth. It was with his barmaid wife
that he had spent the last three days in Bristol, and his father did
not know where he was. Mark that point. It is of importance. Good has
come out of evil, however, for the barmaid, finding from the papers
that he is in serious trouble and likely to be hanged, has thrown him
over utterly and has written to him to say that she has a husband
already in the Bermuda Dockyard, so that there is really no tie between
them. I think that that bit of news has consoled young McCarthy for all
that he has suffered.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Ah! who? I would call your attention very particularly to two points.
One is that the murdered man had an appointment with someone at the
pool, and that the someone could not have been his son, for his son was
away, and he did not know when he would return. The second is that the
murdered man was heard to cry ‘Cooee!’ before he knew that his son had
returned. Those are the crucial points upon which the case depends. And
now let us talk about George Meredith, if you please, and we shall
leave all minor matters until to-morrow.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> There was no rain, as Holmes had foretold, and the morning broke bright
and cloudless. At nine o’clock Lestrade called for us with the
carriage, and we set off for Hatherley Farm and the Boscombe Pool. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “There is serious news this morning,” Lestrade observed. “It is said
that Mr. Turner, of the Hall, is so ill that his life is despaired of.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “About sixty; but his constitution has been shattered by his life
abroad, and he has been in failing health for some time. This business
has had a very bad effect upon him. He was an old friend of McCarthy’s,
and, I may add, a great benefactor to him, for I have learned that he
gave him Hatherley Farm rent free.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Really! Does it not strike you as a little singular that this
McCarthy, who appears to have had little of his own, and to have been
under such obligations to Turner, should still talk of marrying his son
to Turner’s daughter, who is, presumably, heiress to the estate, and
that in such a very cocksure manner, as if it were merely a case of a
proposal and all else would follow? It is the more strange, since we
know that Turner himself was averse to the idea. The daughter told us
as much. Do you not deduce something from that?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “We have got to the deductions and the inferences,” said Lestrade,
winking at me. “I find it hard enough to tackle facts, Holmes, without
flying away after theories and fancies.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Anyhow, I have grasped one fact which you seem to find it difficult to
get hold of,” replied Lestrade with some warmth. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, moonshine is a brighter thing than fog,” said Holmes, laughing.
“But I am very much mistaken if this is not Hatherley Farm upon the
left.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, that is it.” It was a widespread, comfortable-looking building,
two-storied, slate-roofed, with great yellow blotches of lichen upon
the grey walls. The drawn blinds and the smokeless chimneys, however,
gave it a stricken look, as though the weight of this horror still lay
heavy upon it. We called at the door, when the maid, at Holmes’
request, showed us the boots which her master wore at the time of his
death, and also a pair of the son’s, though not the pair which he had
then had. Having measured these very carefully from seven or eight
different points, Holmes desired to be led to the court-yard, from
which we all followed the winding track which led to Boscombe Pool. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Sherlock Holmes was transformed when he was hot upon such a scent as
this. Men who had only known the quiet thinker and logician of Baker
Street would have failed to recognise him. His face flushed and
darkened. His brows were drawn into two hard black lines, while his
eyes shone out from beneath them with a steely glitter. His face was
bent downward, his shoulders bowed, his lips compressed, and the veins
stood out like whipcord in his long, sinewy neck. His nostrils seemed
to dilate with a purely animal lust for the chase, and his mind was so
absolutely concentrated upon the matter before him that a question or
remark fell unheeded upon his ears, or, at the most, only provoked a
quick, impatient snarl in reply. Swiftly and silently he made his way
along the track which ran through the meadows, and so by way of the
woods to the Boscombe Pool. It was damp, marshy ground, as is all that
district, and there were marks of many feet, both upon the path and
amid the short grass which bounded it on either side. Sometimes Holmes
would hurry on, sometimes stop dead, and once he made quite a little
detour into the meadow. Lestrade and I walked behind him, the detective
indifferent and contemptuous, while I watched my friend with the
interest which sprang from the conviction that every one of his actions
was directed towards a definite end. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Boscombe Pool, which is a little reed-girt sheet of water some
fifty yards across, is situated at the boundary between the Hatherley
Farm and the private park of the wealthy Mr. Turner. Above the woods
which lined it upon the farther side we could see the red, jutting
pinnacles which marked the site of the rich landowner’s dwelling. On
the Hatherley side of the pool the woods grew very thick, and there was
a narrow belt of sodden grass twenty paces across between the edge of
the trees and the reeds which lined the lake. Lestrade showed us the
exact spot at which the body had been found, and, indeed, so moist was
the ground, that I could plainly see the traces which had been left by
the fall of the stricken man. To Holmes, as I could see by his eager
face and peering eyes, very many other things were to be read upon the
trampled grass. He ran round, like a dog who is picking up a scent, and
then turned upon my companion. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, tut, tut! I have no time! That left foot of yours with its inward
twist is all over the place. A mole could trace it, and there it
vanishes among the reeds. Oh, how simple it would all have been had I
been here before they came like a herd of buffalo and wallowed all over
it. Here is where the party with the lodge-keeper came, and they have
covered all tracks for six or eight feet round the body. But here are
three separate tracks of the same feet.” He drew out a lens and lay
down upon his waterproof to have a better view, talking all the time
rather to himself than to us. “These are young McCarthy’s feet. Twice
he was walking, and once he ran swiftly, so that the soles are deeply
marked and the heels hardly visible. That bears out his story. He ran
when he saw his father on the ground. Then here are the father’s feet
as he paced up and down. What is this, then? It is the butt-end of the
gun as the son stood listening. And this? Ha, ha! What have we here?
Tiptoes! tiptoes! Square, too, quite unusual boots! They come, they go,
they come again—of course that was for the cloak. Now where did they
come from?” He ran up and down, sometimes losing, sometimes finding the
track until we were well within the edge of the wood and under the
shadow of a great beech, the largest tree in the neighbourhood. Holmes
traced his way to the farther side of this and lay down once more upon
his face with a little cry of satisfaction. For a long time he remained
there, turning over the leaves and dried sticks, gathering up what
seemed to me to be dust into an envelope and examining with his lens
not only the ground but even the bark of the tree as far as he could
reach. A jagged stone was lying among the moss, and this also he
carefully examined and retained. Then he followed a pathway through the
wood until he came to the high road, where all traces were lost. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It has been a case of considerable interest,” he remarked, returning
to his natural manner. “I fancy that this grey house on the right must
be the lodge. I think that I will go in and have a word with Moran, and
perhaps write a little note. Having done that, we may drive back to our
luncheon. You may walk to the cab, and I shall be with you presently.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was about ten minutes before we regained our cab and drove back into
Ross, Holmes still carrying with him the stone which he had picked up
in the wood. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The grass was growing under it. It had only lain there a few days.
There was no sign of a place whence it had been taken. It corresponds
with the injuries. There is no sign of any other weapon.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Is a tall man, left-handed, limps with the right leg, wears
thick-soled shooting-boots and a grey cloak, smokes Indian cigars, uses
a cigar-holder, and carries a blunt pen-knife in his pocket. There are
several other indications, but these may be enough to aid us in our
search.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Lestrade laughed. “I am afraid that I am still a sceptic,” he said.
“Theories are all very well, but we have to deal with a hard-headed
British jury.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “_Nous verrons_,” answered Holmes calmly. “You work your own method,
and I shall work mine. I shall be busy this afternoon, and shall
probably return to London by the evening train.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Lestrade shrugged his shoulders. “I am a practical man,” he said, “and
I really cannot undertake to go about the country looking for a
left-handed gentleman with a game leg. I should become the
laughing-stock of Scotland Yard.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “All right,” said Holmes quietly. “I have given you the chance. Here
are your lodgings. Good-bye. I shall drop you a line before I leave.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Having left Lestrade at his rooms, we drove to our hotel, where we
found lunch upon the table. Holmes was silent and buried in thought
with a pained expression upon his face, as one who finds himself in a
perplexing position. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Look here, Watson,” he said when the cloth was cleared “just sit down
in this chair and let me preach to you for a little. I don’t know quite
what to do, and I should value your advice. Light a cigar and let me
expound.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, now, in considering this case there are two points about young
McCarthy’s narrative which struck us both instantly, although they
impressed me in his favour and you against him. One was the fact that
his father should, according to his account, cry ‘Cooee!’ before seeing
him. The other was his singular dying reference to a rat. He mumbled
several words, you understand, but that was all that caught the son’s
ear. Now from this double point our research must commence, and we will
begin it by presuming that what the lad says is absolutely true.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, obviously it could not have been meant for the son. The son, as
far as he knew, was in Bristol. It was mere chance that he was within
earshot. The ‘Cooee!’ was meant to attract the attention of whoever it
was that he had the appointment with. But ‘Cooee’ is a distinctly
Australian cry, and one which is used between Australians. There is a
strong presumption that the person whom McCarthy expected to meet him
at Boscombe Pool was someone who had been in Australia.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Sherlock Holmes took a folded paper from his pocket and flattened it
out on the table. “This is a map of the Colony of Victoria,” he said.
“I wired to Bristol for it last night.” He put his hand over part of
the map. “What do you read?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Quite so. That was the word the man uttered, and of which his son only
caught the last two syllables. He was trying to utter the name of his
murderer. So and so, of Ballarat.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is obvious. And now, you see, I had narrowed the field down
considerably. The possession of a grey garment was a third point which,
granting the son’s statement to be correct, was a certainty. We have
come now out of mere vagueness to the definite conception of an
Australian from Ballarat with a grey cloak.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And one who was at home in the district, for the pool can only be
approached by the farm or by the estate, where strangers could hardly
wander.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Then comes our expedition of to-day. By an examination of the ground I
gained the trifling details which I gave to that imbecile Lestrade, as
to the personality of the criminal.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “His height I know that you might roughly judge from the length of his
stride. His boots, too, might be told from their traces.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The impression of his right foot was always less distinct than his
left. He put less weight upon it. Why? Because he limped—he was lame.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You were yourself struck by the nature of the injury as recorded by
the surgeon at the inquest. The blow was struck from immediately
behind, and yet was upon the left side. Now, how can that be unless it
were by a left-handed man? He had stood behind that tree during the
interview between the father and son. He had even smoked there. I found
the ash of a cigar, which my special knowledge of tobacco ashes enables
me to pronounce as an Indian cigar. I have, as you know, devoted some
attention to this, and written a little monograph on the ashes of 140
different varieties of pipe, cigar, and cigarette tobacco. Having found
the ash, I then looked round and discovered the stump among the moss
where he had tossed it. It was an Indian cigar, of the variety which
are rolled in Rotterdam.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I could see that the end had not been in his mouth. Therefore he used
a holder. The tip had been cut off, not bitten off, but the cut was not
a clean one, so I deduced a blunt pen-knife.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Holmes,” I said, “you have drawn a net round this man from which he
cannot escape, and you have saved an innocent human life as truly as if
you had cut the cord which was hanging him. I see the direction in
which all this points. The culprit is—” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The man who entered was a strange and impressive figure. His slow,
limping step and bowed shoulders gave the appearance of decrepitude,
and yet his hard, deep-lined, craggy features, and his enormous limbs
showed that he was possessed of unusual strength of body and of
character. His tangled beard, grizzled hair, and outstanding, drooping
eyebrows combined to give an air of dignity and power to his
appearance, but his face was of an ashen white, while his lips and the
corners of his nostrils were tinged with a shade of blue. It was clear
to me at a glance that he was in the grip of some deadly and chronic
disease. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And why did you wish to see me?” He looked across at my companion with
despair in his weary eyes, as though his question was already answered. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The old man sank his face in his hands. “God help me!” he cried. “But I
would not have let the young man come to harm. I give you my word that
I would have spoken out if it went against him at the Assizes.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I would have spoken now had it not been for my dear girl. It would
break her heart—it will break her heart when she hears that I am
arrested.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am no official agent. I understand that it was your daughter who
required my presence here, and I am acting in her interests. Young
McCarthy must be got off, however.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am a dying man,” said old Turner. “I have had diabetes for years. My
doctor says it is a question whether I shall live a month. Yet I would
rather die under my own roof than in a gaol.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Holmes rose and sat down at the table with his pen in his hand and a
bundle of paper before him. “Just tell us the truth,” he said. “I shall
jot down the facts. You will sign it, and Watson here can witness it.
Then I could produce your confession at the last extremity to save
young McCarthy. I promise you that I shall not use it unless it is
absolutely needed.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It’s as well,” said the old man; “it’s a question whether I shall live
to the Assizes, so it matters little to me, but I should wish to spare
Alice the shock. And now I will make the thing clear to you; it has
been a long time in the acting, but will not take me long to tell. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You didn’t know this dead man, McCarthy. He was a devil incarnate. I
tell you that. God keep you out of the clutches of such a man as he.
His grip has been upon me these twenty years, and he has blasted my
life. I’ll tell you first how I came to be in his power. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It was in the early ’60’s at the diggings. I was a young chap then,
hot-blooded and reckless, ready to turn my hand at anything; I got
among bad companions, took to drink, had no luck with my claim, took to
the bush, and in a word became what you would call over here a highway
robber. There were six of us, and we had a wild, free life of it,
sticking up a station from time to time, or stopping the wagons on the
road to the diggings. Black Jack of Ballarat was the name I went under,
and our party is still remembered in the colony as the Ballarat Gang. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “One day a gold convoy came down from Ballarat to Melbourne, and we lay
in wait for it and attacked it. There were six troopers and six of us,
so it was a close thing, but we emptied four of their saddles at the
first volley. Three of our boys were killed, however, before we got the
swag. I put my pistol to the head of the wagon-driver, who was this
very man McCarthy. I wish to the Lord that I had shot him then, but I
spared him, though I saw his wicked little eyes fixed on my face, as
though to remember every feature. We got away with the gold, became
wealthy men, and made our way over to England without being suspected.
There I parted from my old pals and determined to settle down to a
quiet and respectable life. I bought this estate, which chanced to be
in the market, and I set myself to do a little good with my money, to
make up for the way in which I had earned it. I married, too, and
though my wife died young she left me my dear little Alice. Even when
she was just a baby her wee hand seemed to lead me down the right path
as nothing else had ever done. In a word, I turned over a new leaf and
did my best to make up for the past. All was going well when McCarthy
laid his grip upon me. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I had gone up to town about an investment, and I met him in Regent
Street with hardly a coat to his back or a boot to his foot. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Here we are, Jack,’ says he, touching me on the arm; ‘we’ll be as
good as a family to you. There’s two of us, me and my son, and you can
have the keeping of us. If you don’t—it’s a fine, law-abiding country
is England, and there’s always a policeman within hail.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, down they came to the west country, there was no shaking them
off, and there they have lived rent free on my best land ever since.
There was no rest for me, no peace, no forgetfulness; turn where I
would, there was his cunning, grinning face at my elbow. It grew worse
as Alice grew up, for he soon saw I was more afraid of her knowing my
past than of the police. Whatever he wanted he must have, and whatever
it was I gave him without question, land, money, houses, until at last
he asked a thing which I could not give. He asked for Alice. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “His son, you see, had grown up, and so had my girl, and as I was known
to be in weak health, it seemed a fine stroke to him that his lad
should step into the whole property. But there I was firm. I would not
have his cursed stock mixed with mine; not that I had any dislike to
the lad, but his blood was in him, and that was enough. I stood firm.
McCarthy threatened. I braved him to do his worst. We were to meet at
the pool midway between our houses to talk it over. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “When I went down there I found him talking with his son, so I smoked a
cigar and waited behind a tree until he should be alone. But as I
listened to his talk all that was black and bitter in me seemed to come
uppermost. He was urging his son to marry my daughter with as little
regard for what she might think as if she were a slut from off the
streets. It drove me mad to think that I and all that I held most dear
should be in the power of such a man as this. Could I not snap the
bond? I was already a dying and a desperate man. Though clear of mind
and fairly strong of limb, I knew that my own fate was sealed. But my
memory and my girl! Both could be saved if I could but silence that
foul tongue. I did it, Mr. Holmes. I would do it again. Deeply as I
have sinned, I have led a life of martyrdom to atone for it. But that
my girl should be entangled in the same meshes which held me was more
than I could suffer. I struck him down with no more compunction than if
he had been some foul and venomous beast. His cry brought back his son;
but I had gained the cover of the wood, though I was forced to go back
to fetch the cloak which I had dropped in my flight. That is the true
story, gentlemen, of all that occurred.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, it is not for me to judge you,” said Holmes as the old man
signed the statement which had been drawn out. “I pray that we may
never be exposed to such a temptation.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “In view of your health, nothing. You are yourself aware that you will
soon have to answer for your deed at a higher court than the Assizes. I
will keep your confession, and if McCarthy is condemned I shall be
forced to use it. If not, it shall never be seen by mortal eye; and
your secret, whether you be alive or dead, shall be safe with us.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Farewell, then,” said the old man solemnly. “Your own deathbeds, when
they come, will be the easier for the thought of the peace which you
have given to mine.” Tottering and shaking in all his giant frame, he
stumbled slowly from the room. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “God help us!” said Holmes after a long silence. “Why does fate play
such tricks with poor, helpless worms? I never hear of such a case as
this that I do not think of Baxter’s words, and say, ‘There, but for
the grace of God, goes Sherlock Holmes.’” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> James McCarthy was acquitted at the Assizes on the strength of a number
of objections which had been drawn out by Holmes and submitted to the
defending counsel. Old Turner lived for seven months after our
interview, but he is now dead; and there is every prospect that the son
and daughter may come to live happily together in ignorance of the
black cloud which rests upon their past. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When I glance over my notes and records of the Sherlock Holmes cases
between the years ’82 and ’90, I am faced by so many which present
strange and interesting features that it is no easy matter to know
which to choose and which to leave. Some, however, have already gained
publicity through the papers, and others have not offered a field for
those peculiar qualities which my friend possessed in so high a degree,
and which it is the object of these papers to illustrate. Some, too,
have baffled his analytical skill, and would be, as narratives,
beginnings without an ending, while others have been but partially
cleared up, and have their explanations founded rather upon conjecture
and surmise than on that absolute logical proof which was so dear to
him. There is, however, one of these last which was so remarkable in
its details and so startling in its results that I am tempted to give
some account of it in spite of the fact that there are points in
connection with it which never have been, and probably never will be,
entirely cleared up. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The year ’87 furnished us with a long series of cases of greater or
less interest, of which I retain the records. Among my headings under
this one twelve months I find an account of the adventure of the
Paradol Chamber, of the Amateur Mendicant Society, who held a luxurious
club in the lower vault of a furniture warehouse, of the facts
connected with the loss of the British barque _Sophy Anderson_, of the
singular adventures of the Grice Patersons in the island of Uffa, and
finally of the Camberwell poisoning case. In the latter, as may be
remembered, Sherlock Holmes was able, by winding up the dead man’s
watch, to prove that it had been wound up two hours before, and that
therefore the deceased had gone to bed within that time—a deduction
which was of the greatest importance in clearing up the case. All these
I may sketch out at some future date, but none of them present such
singular features as the strange train of circumstances which I have
now taken up my pen to describe. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was in the latter days of September, and the equinoctial gales had
set in with exceptional violence. All day the wind had screamed and the
rain had beaten against the windows, so that even here in the heart of
great, hand-made London we were forced to raise our minds for the
instant from the routine of life and to recognise the presence of those
great elemental forces which shriek at mankind through the bars of his
civilisation, like untamed beasts in a cage. As evening drew in, the
storm grew higher and louder, and the wind cried and sobbed like a
child in the chimney. Sherlock Holmes sat moodily at one side of the
fireplace cross-indexing his records of crime, while I at the other was
deep in one of Clark Russell’s fine sea-stories until the howl of the
gale from without seemed to blend with the text, and the splash of the
rain to lengthen out into the long swash of the sea waves. My wife was
on a visit to her mother’s, and for a few days I was a dweller once
more in my old quarters at Baker Street. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Why,” said I, glancing up at my companion, “that was surely the bell.
Who could come to-night? Some friend of yours, perhaps?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If so, it is a serious case. Nothing less would bring a man out on
such a day and at such an hour. But I take it that it is more likely to
be some crony of the landlady’s.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Sherlock Holmes was wrong in his conjecture, however, for there came a
step in the passage and a tapping at the door. He stretched out his
long arm to turn the lamp away from himself and towards the vacant
chair upon which a newcomer must sit. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The man who entered was young, some two-and-twenty at the outside,
well-groomed and trimly clad, with something of refinement and delicacy
in his bearing. The streaming umbrella which he held in his hand, and
his long shining waterproof told of the fierce weather through which he
had come. He looked about him anxiously in the glare of the lamp, and I
could see that his face was pale and his eyes heavy, like those of a
man who is weighed down with some great anxiety. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I owe you an apology,” he said, raising his golden pince-nez to his
eyes. “I trust that I am not intruding. I fear that I have brought some
traces of the storm and rain into your snug chamber.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Give me your coat and umbrella,” said Holmes. “They may rest here on
the hook and will be dry presently. You have come up from the
south-west, I see.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have heard of you, Mr. Holmes. I heard from Major Prendergast how
you saved him in the Tankerville Club scandal.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I beg that you will draw your chair up to the fire and favour me with
some details as to your case.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And yet I question, sir, whether, in all your experience, you have
ever listened to a more mysterious and inexplicable chain of events
than those which have happened in my own family.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You fill me with interest,” said Holmes. “Pray give us the essential
facts from the commencement, and I can afterwards question you as to
those details which seem to me to be most important.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My name,” said he, “is John Openshaw, but my own affairs have, as far
as I can understand, little to do with this awful business. It is a
hereditary matter; so in order to give you an idea of the facts, I must
go back to the commencement of the affair. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You must know that my grandfather had two sons—my uncle Elias and my
father Joseph. My father had a small factory at Coventry, which he
enlarged at the time of the invention of bicycling. He was a patentee
of the Openshaw unbreakable tire, and his business met with such
success that he was able to sell it and to retire upon a handsome
competence. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My uncle Elias emigrated to America when he was a young man and became
a planter in Florida, where he was reported to have done very well. At
the time of the war he fought in Jackson’s army, and afterwards under
Hood, where he rose to be a colonel. When Lee laid down his arms my
uncle returned to his plantation, where he remained for three or four
years. About 1869 or 1870 he came back to Europe and took a small
estate in Sussex, near Horsham. He had made a very considerable fortune
in the States, and his reason for leaving them was his aversion to the
negroes, and his dislike of the Republican policy in extending the
franchise to them. He was a singular man, fierce and quick-tempered,
very foul-mouthed when he was angry, and of a most retiring
disposition. During all the years that he lived at Horsham, I doubt if
ever he set foot in the town. He had a garden and two or three fields
round his house, and there he would take his exercise, though very
often for weeks on end he would never leave his room. He drank a great
deal of brandy and smoked very heavily, but he would see no society and
did not want any friends, not even his own brother. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He didn’t mind me; in fact, he took a fancy to me, for at the time
when he saw me first I was a youngster of twelve or so. This would be
in the year 1878, after he had been eight or nine years in England. He
begged my father to let me live with him and he was very kind to me in
his way. When he was sober he used to be fond of playing backgammon and
draughts with me, and he would make me his representative both with the
servants and with the tradespeople, so that by the time that I was
sixteen I was quite master of the house. I kept all the keys and could
go where I liked and do what I liked, so long as I did not disturb him
in his privacy. There was one singular exception, however, for he had a
single room, a lumber-room up among the attics, which was invariably
locked, and which he would never permit either me or anyone else to
enter. With a boy’s curiosity I have peeped through the keyhole, but I
was never able to see more than such a collection of old trunks and
bundles as would be expected in such a room. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “One day—it was in March, 1883—a letter with a foreign stamp lay upon
the table in front of the colonel’s plate. It was not a common thing
for him to receive letters, for his bills were all paid in ready money,
and he had no friends of any sort. ‘From India!’ said he as he took it
up, ‘Pondicherry postmark! What can this be?’ Opening it hurriedly, out
there jumped five little dried orange pips, which pattered down upon
his plate. I began to laugh at this, but the laugh was struck from my
lips at the sight of his face. His lip had fallen, his eyes were
protruding, his skin the colour of putty, and he glared at the envelope
which he still held in his trembling hand, ‘K. K. K.!’ he shrieked, and
then, ‘My God, my God, my sins have overtaken me!’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Death,’ said he, and rising from the table he retired to his room,
leaving me palpitating with horror. I took up the envelope and saw
scrawled in red ink upon the inner flap, just above the gum, the letter
K three times repeated. There was nothing else save the five dried
pips. What could be the reason of his overpowering terror? I left the
breakfast-table, and as I ascended the stair I met him coming down with
an old rusty key, which must have belonged to the attic, in one hand,
and a small brass box, like a cashbox, in the other. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘They may do what they like, but I’ll checkmate them still,’ said he
with an oath. ‘Tell Mary that I shall want a fire in my room to-day,
and send down to Fordham, the Horsham lawyer.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I did as he ordered, and when the lawyer arrived I was asked to step
up to the room. The fire was burning brightly, and in the grate there
was a mass of black, fluffy ashes, as of burned paper, while the brass
box stood open and empty beside it. As I glanced at the box I noticed,
with a start, that upon the lid was printed the treble K which I had
read in the morning upon the envelope. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘I wish you, John,’ said my uncle, ‘to witness my will. I leave my
estate, with all its advantages and all its disadvantages, to my
brother, your father, whence it will, no doubt, descend to you. If you
can enjoy it in peace, well and good! If you find you cannot, take my
advice, my boy, and leave it to your deadliest enemy. I am sorry to
give you such a two-edged thing, but I can’t say what turn things are
going to take. Kindly sign the paper where Mr. Fordham shows you.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I signed the paper as directed, and the lawyer took it away with him.
The singular incident made, as you may think, the deepest impression
upon me, and I pondered over it and turned it every way in my mind
without being able to make anything of it. Yet I could not shake off
the vague feeling of dread which it left behind, though the sensation
grew less keen as the weeks passed and nothing happened to disturb the
usual routine of our lives. I could see a change in my uncle, however.
He drank more than ever, and he was less inclined for any sort of
society. Most of his time he would spend in his room, with the door
locked upon the inside, but sometimes he would emerge in a sort of
drunken frenzy and would burst out of the house and tear about the
garden with a revolver in his hand, screaming out that he was afraid of
no man, and that he was not to be cooped up, like a sheep in a pen, by
man or devil. When these hot fits were over, however, he would rush
tumultuously in at the door and lock and bar it behind him, like a man
who can brazen it out no longer against the terror which lies at the
roots of his soul. At such times I have seen his face, even on a cold
day, glisten with moisture, as though it were new raised from a basin. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, to come to an end of the matter, Mr. Holmes, and not to abuse
your patience, there came a night when he made one of those drunken
sallies from which he never came back. We found him, when we went to
search for him, face downward in a little green-scummed pool, which lay
at the foot of the garden. There was no sign of any violence, and the
water was but two feet deep, so that the jury, having regard to his
known eccentricity, brought in a verdict of ‘suicide.’ But I, who knew
how he winced from the very thought of death, had much ado to persuade
myself that he had gone out of his way to meet it. The matter passed,
however, and my father entered into possession of the estate, and of
some £ 14,000, which lay to his credit at the bank.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “One moment,” Holmes interposed, “your statement is, I foresee, one of
the most remarkable to which I have ever listened. Let me have the date
of the reception by your uncle of the letter, and the date of his
supposed suicide.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “When my father took over the Horsham property, he, at my request, made
a careful examination of the attic, which had been always locked up. We
found the brass box there, although its contents had been destroyed. On
the inside of the cover was a paper label, with the initials of K. K.
K. repeated upon it, and ‘Letters, memoranda, receipts, and a register’
written beneath. These, we presume, indicated the nature of the papers
which had been destroyed by Colonel Openshaw. For the rest, there was
nothing of much importance in the attic save a great many scattered
papers and note-books bearing upon my uncle’s life in America. Some of
them were of the war time and showed that he had done his duty well and
had borne the repute of a brave soldier. Others were of a date during
the reconstruction of the Southern states, and were mostly concerned
with politics, for he had evidently taken a strong part in opposing the
carpet-bag politicians who had been sent down from the North. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, it was the beginning of ’84 when my father came to live at
Horsham, and all went as well as possible with us until the January of
’85. On the fourth day after the new year I heard my father give a
sharp cry of surprise as we sat together at the breakfast-table. There
he was, sitting with a newly opened envelope in one hand and five dried
orange pips in the outstretched palm of the other one. He had always
laughed at what he called my cock-and-bull story about the colonel, but
he looked very scared and puzzled now that the same thing had come upon
himself. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He looked inside the envelope. ‘So it is,’ he cried. ‘Here are the
very letters. But what is this written above them?’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Pooh!’ said he, gripping hard at his courage. ‘We are in a civilised
land here, and we can’t have tomfoolery of this kind. Where does the
thing come from?’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Some preposterous practical joke,’ said he. ‘What have I to do with
sundials and papers? I shall take no notice of such nonsense.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It was in vain to argue with him, for he was a very obstinate man. I
went about, however, with a heart which was full of forebodings. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “On the third day after the coming of the letter my father went from
home to visit an old friend of his, Major Freebody, who is in command
of one of the forts upon Portsdown Hill. I was glad that he should go,
for it seemed to me that he was farther from danger when he was away
from home. In that, however, I was in error. Upon the second day of his
absence I received a telegram from the major, imploring me to come at
once. My father had fallen over one of the deep chalk-pits which abound
in the neighbourhood, and was lying senseless, with a shattered skull.
I hurried to him, but he passed away without having ever recovered his
consciousness. He had, as it appears, been returning from Fareham in
the twilight, and as the country was unknown to him, and the chalk-pit
unfenced, the jury had no hesitation in bringing in a verdict of ‘death
from accidental causes.’ Carefully as I examined every fact connected
with his death, I was unable to find anything which could suggest the
idea of murder. There were no signs of violence, no footmarks, no
robbery, no record of strangers having been seen upon the roads. And
yet I need not tell you that my mind was far from at ease, and that I
was well-nigh certain that some foul plot had been woven round him. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “In this sinister way I came into my inheritance. You will ask me why I
did not dispose of it? I answer, because I was well convinced that our
troubles were in some way dependent upon an incident in my uncle’s
life, and that the danger would be as pressing in one house as in
another. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It was in January, ’85, that my poor father met his end, and two years
and eight months have elapsed since then. During that time I have lived
happily at Horsham, and I had begun to hope that this curse had passed
away from the family, and that it had ended with the last generation. I
had begun to take comfort too soon, however; yesterday morning the blow
fell in the very shape in which it had come upon my father.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The young man took from his waistcoat a crumpled envelope, and turning
to the table he shook out upon it five little dried orange pips. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This is the envelope,” he continued. “The postmark is London—eastern
division. Within are the very words which were upon my father’s last
message: ‘K. K. K.’; and then ‘Put the papers on the sundial.’” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “To tell the truth”—he sank his face into his thin, white hands—“I have
felt helpless. I have felt like one of those poor rabbits when the
snake is writhing towards it. I seem to be in the grasp of some
resistless, inexorable evil, which no foresight and no precautions can
guard against.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Tut! tut!” cried Sherlock Holmes. “You must act, man, or you are lost.
Nothing but energy can save you. This is no time for despair.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But they listened to my story with a smile. I am convinced that the
inspector has formed the opinion that the letters are all practical
jokes, and that the deaths of my relations were really accidents, as
the jury stated, and were not to be connected with the warnings.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I did not know. It was only to-day that I spoke to Major Prendergast
about my troubles and was advised by him to come to you.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is really two days since you had the letter. We should have acted
before this. You have no further evidence, I suppose, than that which
you have placed before us—no suggestive detail which might help us?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “There is one thing,” said John Openshaw. He rummaged in his coat
pocket, and, drawing out a piece of discoloured, blue-tinted paper, he
laid it out upon the table. “I have some remembrance,” said he, “that
on the day when my uncle burned the papers I observed that the small,
unburned margins which lay amid the ashes were of this particular
colour. I found this single sheet upon the floor of his room, and I am
inclined to think that it may be one of the papers which has, perhaps,
fluttered out from among the others, and in that way has escaped
destruction. Beyond the mention of pips, I do not see that it helps us
much. I think myself that it is a page from some private diary. The
writing is undoubtedly my uncle’s.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Holmes moved the lamp, and we both bent over the sheet of paper, which
showed by its ragged edge that it had indeed been torn from a book. It
was headed, “March, 1869,” and beneath were the following enigmatical
notices: </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Thank you!” said Holmes, folding up the paper and returning it to our
visitor. “And now you must on no account lose another instant. We
cannot spare time even to discuss what you have told me. You must get
home instantly and act.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “There is but one thing to do. It must be done at once. You must put
this piece of paper which you have shown us into the brass box which
you have described. You must also put in a note to say that all the
other papers were burned by your uncle, and that this is the only one
which remains. You must assert that in such words as will carry
conviction with them. Having done this, you must at once put the box
out upon the sundial, as directed. Do you understand?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Do not think of revenge, or anything of the sort, at present. I think
that we may gain that by means of the law; but we have our web to
weave, while theirs is already woven. The first consideration is to
remove the pressing danger which threatens you. The second is to clear
up the mystery and to punish the guilty parties.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I thank you,” said the young man, rising and pulling on his overcoat.
“You have given me fresh life and hope. I shall certainly do as you
advise.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Do not lose an instant. And, above all, take care of yourself in the
meanwhile, for I do not think that there can be a doubt that you are
threatened by a very real and imminent danger. How do you go back?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is not yet nine. The streets will be crowded, so I trust that you
may be in safety. And yet you cannot guard yourself too closely.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Then I shall call upon you in a day, or in two days, with news as to
the box and the papers. I shall take your advice in every particular.”
He shook hands with us and took his leave. Outside the wind still
screamed and the rain splashed and pattered against the windows. This
strange, wild story seemed to have come to us from amid the mad
elements—blown in upon us like a sheet of sea-weed in a gale—and now to
have been reabsorbed by them once more. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Sherlock Holmes sat for some time in silence, with his head sunk
forward and his eyes bent upon the red glow of the fire. Then he lit
his pipe, and leaning back in his chair he watched the blue smoke-rings
as they chased each other up to the ceiling. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, yes. Save, perhaps, that. And yet this John Openshaw seems to me
to be walking amid even greater perils than did the Sholtos.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Sherlock Holmes closed his eyes and placed his elbows upon the arms of
his chair, with his finger-tips together. “The ideal reasoner,” he
remarked, “would, when he had once been shown a single fact in all its
bearings, deduce from it not only all the chain of events which led up
to it but also all the results which would follow from it. As Cuvier
could correctly describe a whole animal by the contemplation of a
single bone, so the observer who has thoroughly understood one link in
a series of incidents should be able to accurately state all the other
ones, both before and after. We have not yet grasped the results which
the reason alone can attain to. Problems may be solved in the study
which have baffled all those who have sought a solution by the aid of
their senses. To carry the art, however, to its highest pitch, it is
necessary that the reasoner should be able to utilise all the facts
which have come to his knowledge; and this in itself implies, as you
will readily see, a possession of all knowledge, which, even in these
days of free education and encyclopædias, is a somewhat rare
accomplishment. It is not so impossible, however, that a man should
possess all knowledge which is likely to be useful to him in his work,
and this I have endeavoured in my case to do. If I remember rightly,
you on one occasion, in the early days of our friendship, defined my
limits in a very precise fashion.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes,” I answered, laughing. “It was a singular document. Philosophy,
astronomy, and politics were marked at zero, I remember. Botany
variable, geology profound as regards the mud-stains from any region
within fifty miles of town, chemistry eccentric, anatomy unsystematic,
sensational literature and crime records unique, violin-player, boxer,
swordsman, lawyer, and self-poisoner by cocaine and tobacco. Those, I
think, were the main points of my analysis.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Holmes grinned at the last item. “Well,” he said, “I say now, as I said
then, that a man should keep his little brain-attic stocked with all
the furniture that he is likely to use, and the rest he can put away in
the lumber-room of his library, where he can get it if he wants it.
Now, for such a case as the one which has been submitted to us
to-night, we need certainly to muster all our resources. Kindly hand me
down the letter K of the _American Encyclopædia_ which stands upon the
shelf beside you. Thank you. Now let us consider the situation and see
what may be deduced from it. In the first place, we may start with a
strong presumption that Colonel Openshaw had some very strong reason
for leaving America. Men at his time of life do not change all their
habits and exchange willingly the charming climate of Florida for the
lonely life of an English provincial town. His extreme love of solitude
in England suggests the idea that he was in fear of someone or
something, so we may assume as a working hypothesis that it was fear of
someone or something which drove him from America. As to what it was he
feared, we can only deduce that by considering the formidable letters
which were received by himself and his successors. Did you remark the
postmarks of those letters?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Excellent. We have already a clue. There can be no doubt that the
probability—the strong probability—is that the writer was on board of a
ship. And now let us consider another point. In the case of
Pondicherry, seven weeks elapsed between the threat and its fulfilment,
in Dundee it was only some three or four days. Does that suggest
anything?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “There is at least a presumption that the vessel in which the man or
men are is a sailing-ship. It looks as if they always send their
singular warning or token before them when starting upon their mission.
You see how quickly the deed followed the sign when it came from
Dundee. If they had come from Pondicherry in a steamer they would have
arrived almost as soon as their letter. But, as a matter of fact, seven
weeks elapsed. I think that those seven weeks represented the
difference between the mail-boat which brought the letter and the
sailing vessel which brought the writer.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “More than that. It is probable. And now you see the deadly urgency of
this new case, and why I urged young Openshaw to caution. The blow has
always fallen at the end of the time which it would take the senders to
travel the distance. But this one comes from London, and therefore we
cannot count upon delay.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The papers which Openshaw carried are obviously of vital importance to
the person or persons in the sailing-ship. I think that it is quite
clear that there must be more than one of them. A single man could not
have carried out two deaths in such a way as to deceive a coroner’s
jury. There must have been several in it, and they must have been men
of resource and determination. Their papers they mean to have, be the
holder of them who it may. In this way you see K. K. K. ceases to be
the initials of an individual and becomes the badge of a society.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Ku Klux Klan. A name derived from the fanciful resemblance to the
sound produced by cocking a rifle. This terrible secret society was
formed by some ex-Confederate soldiers in the Southern states after the
Civil War, and it rapidly formed local branches in different parts of
the country, notably in Tennessee, Louisiana, the Carolinas, Georgia,
and Florida. Its power was used for political purposes, principally for
the terrorising of the negro voters and the murdering and driving from
the country of those who were opposed to its views. Its outrages were
usually preceded by a warning sent to the marked man in some fantastic
but generally recognised shape—a sprig of oak-leaves in some parts,
melon seeds or orange pips in others. On receiving this the victim
might either openly abjure his former ways, or might fly from the
country. If he braved the matter out, death would unfailingly come upon
him, and usually in some strange and unforeseen manner. So perfect was
the organisation of the society, and so systematic its methods, that
there is hardly a case upon record where any man succeeded in braving
it with impunity, or in which any of its outrages were traced home to
the perpetrators. For some years the organisation flourished in spite
of the efforts of the United States government and of the better
classes of the community in the South. Eventually, in the year 1869,
the movement rather suddenly collapsed, although there have been
sporadic outbreaks of the same sort since that date.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You will observe,” said Holmes, laying down the volume, “that the
sudden breaking up of the society was coincident with the disappearance
of Openshaw from America with their papers. It may well have been cause
and effect. It is no wonder that he and his family have some of the
more implacable spirits upon their track. You can understand that this
register and diary may implicate some of the first men in the South,
and that there may be many who will not sleep easy at night until it is
recovered.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Is such as we might expect. It ran, if I remember right, ‘sent the
pips to A, B, and C’—that is, sent the society’s warning to them. Then
there are successive entries that A and B cleared, or left the country,
and finally that C was visited, with, I fear, a sinister result for C.
Well, I think, Doctor, that we may let some light into this dark place,
and I believe that the only chance young Openshaw has in the meantime
is to do what I have told him. There is nothing more to be said or to
be done to-night, so hand me over my violin and let us try to forget
for half an hour the miserable weather and the still more miserable
ways of our fellow men.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It had cleared in the morning, and the sun was shining with a subdued
brightness through the dim veil which hangs over the great city.
Sherlock Holmes was already at breakfast when I came down. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You will excuse me for not waiting for you,” said he; “I have, I
foresee, a very busy day before me in looking into this case of young
Openshaw’s.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It will very much depend upon the results of my first inquiries. I may
have to go down to Horsham, after all.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As I waited, I lifted the unopened newspaper from the table and glanced
my eye over it. It rested upon a heading which sent a chill to my
heart. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Ah!” said he, laying down his cup, “I feared as much. How was it
done?” He spoke calmly, but I could see that he was deeply moved. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Between nine and ten last night Police-Constable Cook, of the H
Division, on duty near Waterloo Bridge, heard a cry for help and a
splash in the water. The night, however, was extremely dark and stormy,
so that, in spite of the help of several passers-by, it was quite
impossible to effect a rescue. The alarm, however, was given, and, by
the aid of the water-police, the body was eventually recovered. It
proved to be that of a young gentleman whose name, as it appears from
an envelope which was found in his pocket, was John Openshaw, and whose
residence is near Horsham. It is conjectured that he may have been
hurrying down to catch the last train from Waterloo Station, and that
in his haste and the extreme darkness he missed his path and walked
over the edge of one of the small landing-places for river steamboats.
The body exhibited no traces of violence, and there can be no doubt
that the deceased had been the victim of an unfortunate accident, which
should have the effect of calling the attention of the authorities to
the condition of the riverside landing-stages.’” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That hurts my pride, Watson,” he said at last. “It is a petty feeling,
no doubt, but it hurts my pride. It becomes a personal matter with me
now, and, if God sends me health, I shall set my hand upon this gang.
That he should come to me for help, and that I should send him away to
his death—!” He sprang from his chair and paced about the room in
uncontrollable agitation, with a flush upon his sallow cheeks and a
nervous clasping and unclasping of his long thin hands. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “They must be cunning devils,” he exclaimed at last. “How could they
have decoyed him down there? The Embankment is not on the direct line
to the station. The bridge, no doubt, was too crowded, even on such a
night, for their purpose. Well, Watson, we shall see who will win in
the long run. I am going out now!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No; I shall be my own police. When I have spun the web they may take
the flies, but not before.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> All day I was engaged in my professional work, and it was late in the
evening before I returned to Baker Street. Sherlock Holmes had not come
back yet. It was nearly ten o’clock before he entered, looking pale and
worn. He walked up to the sideboard, and tearing a piece from the loaf
he devoured it voraciously, washing it down with a long draught of
water. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have them in the hollow of my hand. Young Openshaw shall not long
remain unavenged. Why, Watson, let us put their own devilish trade-mark
upon them. It is well thought of!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He took an orange from the cupboard, and tearing it to pieces he
squeezed out the pips upon the table. Of these he took five and thrust
them into an envelope. On the inside of the flap he wrote “S. H. for J.
O.” Then he sealed it and addressed it to “Captain James Calhoun,
Barque _Lone Star_, Savannah, Georgia.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That will await him when he enters port,” said he, chuckling. “It may
give him a sleepless night. He will find it as sure a precursor of his
fate as Openshaw did before him.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have spent the whole day,” said he, “over Lloyd’s registers and
files of the old papers, following the future career of every vessel
which touched at Pondicherry in January and February in ’83. There were
thirty-six ships of fair tonnage which were reported there during those
months. Of these, one, the _Lone Star_, instantly attracted my
attention, since, although it was reported as having cleared from
London, the name is that which is given to one of the states of the
Union.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I searched the Dundee records, and when I found that the barque _Lone
Star_ was there in January, ’85, my suspicion became a certainty. I
then inquired as to the vessels which lay at present in the port of
London.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The _Lone Star_ had arrived here last week. I went down to the Albert
Dock and found that she had been taken down the river by the early tide
this morning, homeward bound to Savannah. I wired to Gravesend and
learned that she had passed some time ago, and as the wind is easterly
I have no doubt that she is now past the Goodwins and not very far from
the Isle of Wight.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, I have my hand upon him. He and the two mates, are as I learn, the
only native-born Americans in the ship. The others are Finns and
Germans. I know, also, that they were all three away from the ship last
night. I had it from the stevedore who has been loading their cargo. By
the time that their sailing-ship reaches Savannah the mail-boat will
have carried this letter, and the cable will have informed the police
of Savannah that these three gentlemen are badly wanted here upon a
charge of murder.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> There is ever a flaw, however, in the best laid of human plans, and the
murderers of John Openshaw were never to receive the orange pips which
would show them that another, as cunning and as resolute as themselves,
was upon their track. Very long and very severe were the equinoctial
gales that year. We waited long for news of the _Lone Star_ of
Savannah, but none ever reached us. We did at last hear that somewhere
far out in the Atlantic a shattered stern-post of a boat was seen
swinging in the trough of a wave, with the letters “L. S.” carved upon
it, and that is all which we shall ever know of the fate of the _Lone
Star_. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Isa Whitney, brother of the late Elias Whitney, D.D., Principal of the
Theological College of St. George’s, was much addicted to opium. The
habit grew upon him, as I understand, from some foolish freak when he
was at college; for having read De Quincey’s description of his dreams
and sensations, he had drenched his tobacco with laudanum in an attempt
to produce the same effects. He found, as so many more have done, that
the practice is easier to attain than to get rid of, and for many years
he continued to be a slave to the drug, an object of mingled horror and
pity to his friends and relatives. I can see him now, with yellow,
pasty face, drooping lids, and pin-point pupils, all huddled in a
chair, the wreck and ruin of a noble man. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> One night—it was in June, ’89—there came a ring to my bell, about the
hour when a man gives his first yawn and glances at the clock. I sat up
in my chair, and my wife laid her needle-work down in her lap and made
a little face of disappointment. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We heard the door open, a few hurried words, and then quick steps upon
the linoleum. Our own door flew open, and a lady, clad in some
dark-coloured stuff, with a black veil, entered the room. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You will excuse my calling so late,” she began, and then, suddenly
losing her self-control, she ran forward, threw her arms about my
wife’s neck, and sobbed upon her shoulder. “Oh, I’m in such trouble!”
she cried; “I do so want a little help.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Why,” said my wife, pulling up her veil, “it is Kate Whitney. How you
startled me, Kate! I had not an idea who you were when you came in.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I didn’t know what to do, so I came straight to you.” That was always
the way. Folk who were in grief came to my wife like birds to a
lighthouse. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It was very sweet of you to come. Now, you must have some wine and
water, and sit here comfortably and tell us all about it. Or should you
rather that I sent James off to bed?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, no, no! I want the doctor’s advice and help, too. It’s about Isa.
He has not been home for two days. I am so frightened about him!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was not the first time that she had spoken to us of her husband’s
trouble, to me as a doctor, to my wife as an old friend and school
companion. We soothed and comforted her by such words as we could find.
Did she know where her husband was? Was it possible that we could bring
him back to her? </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It seems that it was. She had the surest information that of late he
had, when the fit was on him, made use of an opium den in the farthest
east of the City. Hitherto his orgies had always been confined to one
day, and he had come back, twitching and shattered, in the evening. But
now the spell had been upon him eight-and-forty hours, and he lay
there, doubtless among the dregs of the docks, breathing in the poison
or sleeping off the effects. There he was to be found, she was sure of
it, at the Bar of Gold, in Upper Swandam Lane. But what was she to do?
How could she, a young and timid woman, make her way into such a place
and pluck her husband out from among the ruffians who surrounded him? </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> There was the case, and of course there was but one way out of it.
Might I not escort her to this place? And then, as a second thought,
why should she come at all? I was Isa Whitney’s medical adviser, and as
such I had influence over him. I could manage it better if I were
alone. I promised her on my word that I would send him home in a cab
within two hours if he were indeed at the address which she had given
me. And so in ten minutes I had left my armchair and cheery
sitting-room behind me, and was speeding eastward in a hansom on a
strange errand, as it seemed to me at the time, though the future only
could show how strange it was to be. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But there was no great difficulty in the first stage of my adventure.
Upper Swandam Lane is a vile alley lurking behind the high wharves
which line the north side of the river to the east of London Bridge.
Between a slop-shop and a gin-shop, approached by a steep flight of
steps leading down to a black gap like the mouth of a cave, I found the
den of which I was in search. Ordering my cab to wait, I passed down
the steps, worn hollow in the centre by the ceaseless tread of drunken
feet; and by the light of a flickering oil-lamp above the door I found
the latch and made my way into a long, low room, thick and heavy with
the brown opium smoke, and terraced with wooden berths, like the
forecastle of an emigrant ship. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Through the gloom one could dimly catch a glimpse of bodies lying in
strange fantastic poses, bowed shoulders, bent knees, heads thrown
back, and chins pointing upward, with here and there a dark,
lack-lustre eye turned upon the newcomer. Out of the black shadows
there glimmered little red circles of light, now bright, now faint, as
the burning poison waxed or waned in the bowls of the metal pipes. The
most lay silent, but some muttered to themselves, and others talked
together in a strange, low, monotonous voice, their conversation coming
in gushes, and then suddenly tailing off into silence, each mumbling
out his own thoughts and paying little heed to the words of his
neighbour. At the farther end was a small brazier of burning charcoal,
beside which on a three-legged wooden stool there sat a tall, thin old
man, with his jaw resting upon his two fists, and his elbows upon his
knees, staring into the fire. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As I entered, a sallow Malay attendant had hurried up with a pipe for
me and a supply of the drug, beckoning me to an empty berth. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Thank you. I have not come to stay,” said I. “There is a friend of
mine here, Mr. Isa Whitney, and I wish to speak with him.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> There was a movement and an exclamation from my right, and peering
through the gloom, I saw Whitney, pale, haggard, and unkempt, staring
out at me. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My God! It’s Watson,” said he. He was in a pitiable state of reaction,
with every nerve in a twitter. “I say, Watson, what o’clock is it?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Good heavens! I thought it was Wednesday. It is Wednesday. What d’you
want to frighten a chap for?” He sank his face onto his arms and began
to sob in a high treble key. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I tell you that it is Friday, man. Your wife has been waiting this two
days for you. You should be ashamed of yourself!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “So I am. But you’ve got mixed, Watson, for I have only been here a few
hours, three pipes, four pipes—I forget how many. But I’ll go home with
you. I wouldn’t frighten Kate—poor little Kate. Give me your hand! Have
you a cab?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Then I shall go in it. But I must owe something. Find what I owe,
Watson. I am all off colour. I can do nothing for myself.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I walked down the narrow passage between the double row of sleepers,
holding my breath to keep out the vile, stupefying fumes of the drug,
and looking about for the manager. As I passed the tall man who sat by
the brazier I felt a sudden pluck at my skirt, and a low voice
whispered, “Walk past me, and then look back at me.” The words fell
quite distinctly upon my ear. I glanced down. They could only have come
from the old man at my side, and yet he sat now as absorbed as ever,
very thin, very wrinkled, bent with age, an opium pipe dangling down
from between his knees, as though it had dropped in sheer lassitude
from his fingers. I took two steps forward and looked back. It took all
my self-control to prevent me from breaking out into a cry of
astonishment. He had turned his back so that none could see him but I.
His form had filled out, his wrinkles were gone, the dull eyes had
regained their fire, and there, sitting by the fire and grinning at my
surprise, was none other than Sherlock Holmes. He made a slight motion
to me to approach him, and instantly, as he turned his face half round
to the company once more, subsided into a doddering, loose-lipped
senility. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “As low as you can,” he answered; “I have excellent ears. If you would
have the great kindness to get rid of that sottish friend of yours I
should be exceedingly glad to have a little talk with you.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Then pray send him home in it. You may safely trust him, for he
appears to be too limp to get into any mischief. I should recommend you
also to send a note by the cabman to your wife to say that you have
thrown in your lot with me. If you will wait outside, I shall be with
you in five minutes.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was difficult to refuse any of Sherlock Holmes’ requests, for they
were always so exceedingly definite, and put forward with such a quiet
air of mastery. I felt, however, that when Whitney was once confined in
the cab my mission was practically accomplished; and for the rest, I
could not wish anything better than to be associated with my friend in
one of those singular adventures which were the normal condition of his
existence. In a few minutes I had written my note, paid Whitney’s bill,
led him out to the cab, and seen him driven through the darkness. In a
very short time a decrepit figure had emerged from the opium den, and I
was walking down the street with Sherlock Holmes. For two streets he
shuffled along with a bent back and an uncertain foot. Then, glancing
quickly round, he straightened himself out and burst into a hearty fit
of laughter. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I suppose, Watson,” said he, “that you imagine that I have added
opium-smoking to cocaine injections, and all the other little
weaknesses on which you have favoured me with your medical views.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes; one of my natural enemies, or, shall I say, my natural prey.
Briefly, Watson, I am in the midst of a very remarkable inquiry, and I
have hoped to find a clue in the incoherent ramblings of these sots, as
I have done before now. Had I been recognised in that den my life would
not have been worth an hour’s purchase; for I have used it before now
for my own purposes, and the rascally Lascar who runs it has sworn to
have vengeance upon me. There is a trap-door at the back of that
building, near the corner of Paul’s Wharf, which could tell some
strange tales of what has passed through it upon the moonless nights.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Ay, bodies, Watson. We should be rich men if we had £ 1000 for every
poor devil who has been done to death in that den. It is the vilest
murder-trap on the whole riverside, and I fear that Neville St. Clair
has entered it never to leave it more. But our trap should be here.” He
put his two forefingers between his teeth and whistled shrilly—a signal
which was answered by a similar whistle from the distance, followed
shortly by the rattle of wheels and the clink of horses’ hoofs. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Now, Watson,” said Holmes, as a tall dog-cart dashed up through the
gloom, throwing out two golden tunnels of yellow light from its side
lanterns. “You’ll come with me, won’t you?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, a trusty comrade is always of use; and a chronicler still more so.
My room at The Cedars is a double-bedded one.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Of course you are. You’ll know all about it presently. Jump up here.
All right, John; we shall not need you. Here’s half a crown. Look out
for me to-morrow, about eleven. Give her her head. So long, then!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He flicked the horse with his whip, and we dashed away through the
endless succession of sombre and deserted streets, which widened
gradually, until we were flying across a broad balustraded bridge, with
the murky river flowing sluggishly beneath us. Beyond lay another dull
wilderness of bricks and mortar, its silence broken only by the heavy,
regular footfall of the policeman, or the songs and shouts of some
belated party of revellers. A dull wrack was drifting slowly across the
sky, and a star or two twinkled dimly here and there through the rifts
of the clouds. Holmes drove in silence, with his head sunk upon his
breast, and the air of a man who is lost in thought, while I sat beside
him, curious to learn what this new quest might be which seemed to tax
his powers so sorely, and yet afraid to break in upon the current of
his thoughts. We had driven several miles, and were beginning to get to
the fringe of the belt of suburban villas, when he shook himself,
shrugged his shoulders, and lit up his pipe with the air of a man who
has satisfied himself that he is acting for the best. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You have a grand gift of silence, Watson,” said he. “It makes you
quite invaluable as a companion. ’Pon my word, it is a great thing for
me to have someone to talk to, for my own thoughts are not
over-pleasant. I was wondering what I should say to this dear little
woman to-night when she meets me at the door.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I shall just have time to tell you the facts of the case before we get
to Lee. It seems absurdly simple, and yet, somehow I can get nothing to
go upon. There’s plenty of thread, no doubt, but I can’t get the end of
it into my hand. Now, I’ll state the case clearly and concisely to you,
Watson, and maybe you can see a spark where all is dark to me.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Some years ago—to be definite, in May, 1884—there came to Lee a
gentleman, Neville St. Clair by name, who appeared to have plenty of
money. He took a large villa, laid out the grounds very nicely, and
lived generally in good style. By degrees he made friends in the
neighbourhood, and in 1887 he married the daughter of a local brewer,
by whom he now has two children. He had no occupation, but was
interested in several companies and went into town as a rule in the
morning, returning by the 5:14 from Cannon Street every night. Mr. St.
Clair is now thirty-seven years of age, is a man of temperate habits, a
good husband, a very affectionate father, and a man who is popular with
all who know him. I may add that his whole debts at the present moment,
as far as we have been able to ascertain, amount to £ 88 10_s_., while
he has £ 220 standing to his credit in the Capital and Counties Bank.
There is no reason, therefore, to think that money troubles have been
weighing upon his mind. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Last Monday Mr. Neville St. Clair went into town rather earlier than
usual, remarking before he started that he had two important
commissions to perform, and that he would bring his little boy home a
box of bricks. Now, by the merest chance, his wife received a telegram
upon this same Monday, very shortly after his departure, to the effect
that a small parcel of considerable value which she had been expecting
was waiting for her at the offices of the Aberdeen Shipping Company.
Now, if you are well up in your London, you will know that the office
of the company is in Fresno Street, which branches out of Upper Swandam
Lane, where you found me to-night. Mrs. St. Clair had her lunch,
started for the City, did some shopping, proceeded to the company’s
office, got her packet, and found herself at exactly 4:35 walking
through Swandam Lane on her way back to the station. Have you followed
me so far?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If you remember, Monday was an exceedingly hot day, and Mrs. St. Clair
walked slowly, glancing about in the hope of seeing a cab, as she did
not like the neighbourhood in which she found herself. While she was
walking in this way down Swandam Lane, she suddenly heard an
ejaculation or cry, and was struck cold to see her husband looking down
at her and, as it seemed to her, beckoning to her from a second-floor
window. The window was open, and she distinctly saw his face, which she
describes as being terribly agitated. He waved his hands frantically to
her, and then vanished from the window so suddenly that it seemed to
her that he had been plucked back by some irresistible force from
behind. One singular point which struck her quick feminine eye was that
although he wore some dark coat, such as he had started to town in, he
had on neither collar nor necktie. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Convinced that something was amiss with him, she rushed down the
steps—for the house was none other than the opium den in which you
found me to-night—and running through the front room she attempted to
ascend the stairs which led to the first floor. At the foot of the
stairs, however, she met this Lascar scoundrel of whom I have spoken,
who thrust her back and, aided by a Dane, who acts as assistant there,
pushed her out into the street. Filled with the most maddening doubts
and fears, she rushed down the lane and, by rare good-fortune, met in
Fresno Street a number of constables with an inspector, all on their
way to their beat. The inspector and two men accompanied her back, and
in spite of the continued resistance of the proprietor, they made their
way to the room in which Mr. St. Clair had last been seen. There was no
sign of him there. In fact, in the whole of that floor there was no one
to be found save a crippled wretch of hideous aspect, who, it seems,
made his home there. Both he and the Lascar stoutly swore that no one
else had been in the front room during the afternoon. So determined was
their denial that the inspector was staggered, and had almost come to
believe that Mrs. St. Clair had been deluded when, with a cry, she
sprang at a small deal box which lay upon the table and tore the lid
from it. Out there fell a cascade of children’s bricks. It was the toy
which he had promised to bring home. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This discovery, and the evident confusion which the cripple showed,
made the inspector realise that the matter was serious. The rooms were
carefully examined, and results all pointed to an abominable crime. The
front room was plainly furnished as a sitting-room and led into a small
bedroom, which looked out upon the back of one of the wharves. Between
the wharf and the bedroom window is a narrow strip, which is dry at low
tide but is covered at high tide with at least four and a half feet of
water. The bedroom window was a broad one and opened from below. On
examination traces of blood were to be seen upon the windowsill, and
several scattered drops were visible upon the wooden floor of the
bedroom. Thrust away behind a curtain in the front room were all the
clothes of Mr. Neville St. Clair, with the exception of his coat. His
boots, his socks, his hat, and his watch—all were there. There were no
signs of violence upon any of these garments, and there were no other
traces of Mr. Neville St. Clair. Out of the window he must apparently
have gone for no other exit could be discovered, and the ominous
bloodstains upon the sill gave little promise that he could save
himself by swimming, for the tide was at its very highest at the moment
of the tragedy. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And now as to the villains who seemed to be immediately implicated in
the matter. The Lascar was known to be a man of the vilest antecedents,
but as, by Mrs. St. Clair’s story, he was known to have been at the
foot of the stair within a very few seconds of her husband’s appearance
at the window, he could hardly have been more than an accessory to the
crime. His defence was one of absolute ignorance, and he protested that
he had no knowledge as to the doings of Hugh Boone, his lodger, and
that he could not account in any way for the presence of the missing
gentleman’s clothes. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “So much for the Lascar manager. Now for the sinister cripple who lives
upon the second floor of the opium den, and who was certainly the last
human being whose eyes rested upon Neville St. Clair. His name is Hugh
Boone, and his hideous face is one which is familiar to every man who
goes much to the City. He is a professional beggar, though in order to
avoid the police regulations he pretends to a small trade in wax
vestas. Some little distance down Threadneedle Street, upon the
left-hand side, there is, as you may have remarked, a small angle in
the wall. Here it is that this creature takes his daily seat,
cross-legged with his tiny stock of matches on his lap, and as he is a
piteous spectacle a small rain of charity descends into the greasy
leather cap which lies upon the pavement beside him. I have watched the
fellow more than once before ever I thought of making his professional
acquaintance, and I have been surprised at the harvest which he has
reaped in a short time. His appearance, you see, is so remarkable that
no one can pass him without observing him. A shock of orange hair, a
pale face disfigured by a horrible scar, which, by its contraction, has
turned up the outer edge of his upper lip, a bulldog chin, and a pair
of very penetrating dark eyes, which present a singular contrast to the
colour of his hair, all mark him out from amid the common crowd of
mendicants and so, too, does his wit, for he is ever ready with a reply
to any piece of chaff which may be thrown at him by the passers-by.
This is the man whom we now learn to have been the lodger at the opium
den, and to have been the last man to see the gentleman of whom we are
in quest.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He is a cripple in the sense that he walks with a limp; but in other
respects he appears to be a powerful and well-nurtured man. Surely your
medical experience would tell you, Watson, that weakness in one limb is
often compensated for by exceptional strength in the others.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Mrs. St. Clair had fainted at the sight of the blood upon the window,
and she was escorted home in a cab by the police, as her presence could
be of no help to them in their investigations. Inspector Barton, who
had charge of the case, made a very careful examination of the
premises, but without finding anything which threw any light upon the
matter. One mistake had been made in not arresting Boone instantly, as
he was allowed some few minutes during which he might have communicated
with his friend the Lascar, but this fault was soon remedied, and he
was seized and searched, without anything being found which could
incriminate him. There were, it is true, some blood-stains upon his
right shirt-sleeve, but he pointed to his ring-finger, which had been
cut near the nail, and explained that the bleeding came from there,
adding that he had been to the window not long before, and that the
stains which had been observed there came doubtless from the same
source. He denied strenuously having ever seen Mr. Neville St. Clair
and swore that the presence of the clothes in his room was as much a
mystery to him as to the police. As to Mrs. St. Clair’s assertion that
she had actually seen her husband at the window, he declared that she
must have been either mad or dreaming. He was removed, loudly
protesting, to the police-station, while the inspector remained upon
the premises in the hope that the ebbing tide might afford some fresh
clue. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And it did, though they hardly found upon the mud-bank what they had
feared to find. It was Neville St. Clair’s coat, and not Neville St.
Clair, which lay uncovered as the tide receded. And what do you think
they found in the pockets?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No, I don’t think you would guess. Every pocket stuffed with pennies
and half-pennies—421 pennies and 270 half-pennies. It was no wonder
that it had not been swept away by the tide. But a human body is a
different matter. There is a fierce eddy between the wharf and the
house. It seemed likely enough that the weighted coat had remained when
the stripped body had been sucked away into the river.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But I understand that all the other clothes were found in the room.
Would the body be dressed in a coat alone?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No, sir, but the facts might be met speciously enough. Suppose that
this man Boone had thrust Neville St. Clair through the window, there
is no human eye which could have seen the deed. What would he do then?
It would of course instantly strike him that he must get rid of the
tell-tale garments. He would seize the coat, then, and be in the act of
throwing it out, when it would occur to him that it would swim and not
sink. He has little time, for he has heard the scuffle downstairs when
the wife tried to force her way up, and perhaps he has already heard
from his Lascar confederate that the police are hurrying up the street.
There is not an instant to be lost. He rushes to some secret hoard,
where he has accumulated the fruits of his beggary, and he stuffs all
the coins upon which he can lay his hands into the pockets to make sure
of the coat’s sinking. He throws it out, and would have done the same
with the other garments had not he heard the rush of steps below, and
only just had time to close the window when the police appeared.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, we will take it as a working hypothesis for want of a better.
Boone, as I have told you, was arrested and taken to the station, but
it could not be shown that there had ever before been anything against
him. He had for years been known as a professional beggar, but his life
appeared to have been a very quiet and innocent one. There the matter
stands at present, and the questions which have to be solved—what
Neville St. Clair was doing in the opium den, what happened to him when
there, where is he now, and what Hugh Boone had to do with his
disappearance—are all as far from a solution as ever. I confess that I
cannot recall any case within my experience which looked at the first
glance so simple and yet which presented such difficulties.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> While Sherlock Holmes had been detailing this singular series of
events, we had been whirling through the outskirts of the great town
until the last straggling houses had been left behind, and we rattled
along with a country hedge upon either side of us. Just as he finished,
however, we drove through two scattered villages, where a few lights
still glimmered in the windows. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “We are on the outskirts of Lee,” said my companion. “We have touched
on three English counties in our short drive, starting in Middlesex,
passing over an angle of Surrey, and ending in Kent. See that light
among the trees? That is The Cedars, and beside that lamp sits a woman
whose anxious ears have already, I have little doubt, caught the clink
of our horse’s feet.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Because there are many inquiries which must be made out here. Mrs. St.
Clair has most kindly put two rooms at my disposal, and you may rest
assured that she will have nothing but a welcome for my friend and
colleague. I hate to meet her, Watson, when I have no news of her
husband. Here we are. Whoa, there, whoa!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We had pulled up in front of a large villa which stood within its own
grounds. A stable-boy had run out to the horse’s head, and springing
down, I followed Holmes up the small, winding gravel-drive which led to
the house. As we approached, the door flew open, and a little blonde
woman stood in the opening, clad in some sort of light mousseline de
soie, with a touch of fluffy pink chiffon at her neck and wrists. She
stood with her figure outlined against the flood of light, one hand
upon the door, one half-raised in her eagerness, her body slightly
bent, her head and face protruded, with eager eyes and parted lips, a
standing question. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well?” she cried, “well?” And then, seeing that there were two of us,
she gave a cry of hope which sank into a groan as she saw that my
companion shook his head and shrugged his shoulders. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This is my friend, Dr. Watson. He has been of most vital use to me in
several of my cases, and a lucky chance has made it possible for me to
bring him out and associate him with this investigation.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am delighted to see you,” said she, pressing my hand warmly. “You
will, I am sure, forgive anything that may be wanting in our
arrangements, when you consider the blow which has come so suddenly
upon us.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My dear madam,” said I, “I am an old campaigner, and if I were not I
can very well see that no apology is needed. If I can be of any
assistance, either to you or to my friend here, I shall be indeed
happy.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Now, Mr. Sherlock Holmes,” said the lady as we entered a well-lit
dining-room, upon the table of which a cold supper had been laid out,
“I should very much like to ask you one or two plain questions, to
which I beg that you will give a plain answer.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Do not trouble about my feelings. I am not hysterical, nor given to
fainting. I simply wish to hear your real, real opinion.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Sherlock Holmes seemed to be embarrassed by the question. “Frankly,
now!” she repeated, standing upon the rug and looking keenly down at
him as he leaned back in a basket-chair. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Then perhaps, Mr. Holmes, you will be good enough to explain how it is
that I have received a letter from him to-day.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He snatched it from her in his eagerness, and smoothing it out upon the
table he drew over the lamp and examined it intently. I had left my
chair and was gazing at it over his shoulder. The envelope was a very
coarse one and was stamped with the Gravesend postmark and with the
date of that very day, or rather of the day before, for it was
considerably after midnight. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The name, you see, is in perfectly black ink, which has dried itself.
The rest is of the greyish colour, which shows that blotting-paper has
been used. If it had been written straight off, and then blotted, none
would be of a deep black shade. This man has written the name, and
there has then been a pause before he wrote the address, which can only
mean that he was not familiar with it. It is, of course, a trifle, but
there is nothing so important as trifles. Let us now see the letter.
Ha! there has been an enclosure here!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Dearest do not be frightened. All will come well. There is a huge
error which it may take some little time to rectify. Wait in
patience.—NEVILLE.’ Written in pencil upon the fly-leaf of a book,
octavo size, no water-mark. Hum! Posted to-day in Gravesend by a man
with a dirty thumb. Ha! And the flap has been gummed, if I am not very
much in error, by a person who had been chewing tobacco. And you have
no doubt that it is your husband’s hand, madam?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And they were posted to-day at Gravesend. Well, Mrs. St. Clair, the
clouds lighten, though I should not venture to say that the danger is
over.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Unless this is a clever forgery to put us on the wrong scent. The
ring, after all, proves nothing. It may have been taken from him.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, you must not discourage me, Mr. Holmes. I know that all is well
with him. There is so keen a sympathy between us that I should know if
evil came upon him. On the very day that I saw him last he cut himself
in the bedroom, and yet I in the dining-room rushed upstairs instantly
with the utmost certainty that something had happened. Do you think
that I would respond to such a trifle and yet be ignorant of his
death?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have seen too much not to know that the impression of a woman may be
more valuable than the conclusion of an analytical reasoner. And in
this letter you certainly have a very strong piece of evidence to
corroborate your view. But if your husband is alive and able to write
letters, why should he remain away from you?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But it might have been a cry of surprise. Astonishment at the
unexpected sight of you might cause him to throw up his hands?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Thank you, Mrs. St. Clair. Those are the principal points about which
I wished to be absolutely clear. We shall now have a little supper and
then retire, for we may have a very busy day to-morrow.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> A large and comfortable double-bedded room had been placed at our
disposal, and I was quickly between the sheets, for I was weary after
my night of adventure. Sherlock Holmes was a man, however, who, when he
had an unsolved problem upon his mind, would go for days, and even for
a week, without rest, turning it over, rearranging his facts, looking
at it from every point of view until he had either fathomed it or
convinced himself that his data were insufficient. It was soon evident
to me that he was now preparing for an all-night sitting. He took off
his coat and waistcoat, put on a large blue dressing-gown, and then
wandered about the room collecting pillows from his bed and cushions
from the sofa and armchairs. With these he constructed a sort of
Eastern divan, upon which he perched himself cross-legged, with an
ounce of shag tobacco and a box of matches laid out in front of him. In
the dim light of the lamp I saw him sitting there, an old briar pipe
between his lips, his eyes fixed vacantly upon the corner of the
ceiling, the blue smoke curling up from him, silent, motionless, with
the light shining upon his strong-set aquiline features. So he sat as I
dropped off to sleep, and so he sat when a sudden ejaculation caused me
to wake up, and I found the summer sun shining into the apartment. The
pipe was still between his lips, the smoke still curled upward, and the
room was full of a dense tobacco haze, but nothing remained of the heap
of shag which I had seen upon the previous night. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Then dress. No one is stirring yet, but I know where the stable-boy
sleeps, and we shall soon have the trap out.” He chuckled to himself as
he spoke, his eyes twinkled, and he seemed a different man to the
sombre thinker of the previous night. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As I dressed I glanced at my watch. It was no wonder that no one was
stirring. It was twenty-five minutes past four. I had hardly finished
when Holmes returned with the news that the boy was putting in the
horse. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I want to test a little theory of mine,” said he, pulling on his
boots. “I think, Watson, that you are now standing in the presence of
one of the most absolute fools in Europe. I deserve to be kicked from
here to Charing Cross. But I think I have the key of the affair now.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “In the bathroom,” he answered. “Oh, yes, I am not joking,” he
continued, seeing my look of incredulity. “I have just been there, and
I have taken it out, and I have got it in this Gladstone bag. Come on,
my boy, and we shall see whether it will not fit the lock.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We made our way downstairs as quietly as possible, and out into the
bright morning sunshine. In the road stood our horse and trap, with the
half-clad stable-boy waiting at the head. We both sprang in, and away
we dashed down the London Road. A few country carts were stirring,
bearing in vegetables to the metropolis, but the lines of villas on
either side were as silent and lifeless as some city in a dream. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It has been in some points a singular case,” said Holmes, flicking the
horse on into a gallop. “I confess that I have been as blind as a mole,
but it is better to learn wisdom late than never to learn it at all.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In town the earliest risers were just beginning to look sleepily from
their windows as we drove through the streets of the Surrey side.
Passing down the Waterloo Bridge Road we crossed over the river, and
dashing up Wellington Street wheeled sharply to the right and found
ourselves in Bow Street. Sherlock Holmes was well known to the force,
and the two constables at the door saluted him. One of them held the
horse’s head while the other led us in. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Ah, Bradstreet, how are you?” A tall, stout official had come down the
stone-flagged passage, in a peaked cap and frogged jacket. “I wish to
have a quiet word with you, Bradstreet.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was a small, office-like room, with a huge ledger upon the table,
and a telephone projecting from the wall. The inspector sat down at his
desk. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I called about that beggarman, Boone—the one who was charged with
being concerned in the disappearance of Mr. Neville St. Clair, of Lee.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, it is all we can do to make him wash his hands, and his face is
as black as a tinker’s. Well, when once his case has been settled, he
will have a regular prison bath; and I think, if you saw him, you would
agree with me that he needed it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Very good. Come this way, if you please.” He led us down a passage,
opened a barred door, passed down a winding stair, and brought us to a
whitewashed corridor with a line of doors on each side. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The third on the right is his,” said the inspector. “Here it is!” He
quietly shot back a panel in the upper part of the door and glanced
through. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We both put our eyes to the grating. The prisoner lay with his face
towards us, in a very deep sleep, breathing slowly and heavily. He was
a middle-sized man, coarsely clad as became his calling, with a
coloured shirt protruding through the rent in his tattered coat. He
was, as the inspector had said, extremely dirty, but the grime which
covered his face could not conceal its repulsive ugliness. A broad
wheal from an old scar ran right across it from eye to chin, and by its
contraction had turned up one side of the upper lip, so that three
teeth were exposed in a perpetual snarl. A shock of very bright red
hair grew low over his eyes and forehead. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He certainly needs a wash,” remarked Holmes. “I had an idea that he
might, and I took the liberty of bringing the tools with me.” He opened
the Gladstone bag as he spoke, and took out, to my astonishment, a very
large bath-sponge. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Now, if you will have the great goodness to open that door very
quietly, we will soon make him cut a much more respectable figure.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, I don’t know why not,” said the inspector. “He doesn’t look a
credit to the Bow Street cells, does he?” He slipped his key into the
lock, and we all very quietly entered the cell. The sleeper half
turned, and then settled down once more into a deep slumber. Holmes
stooped to the water-jug, moistened his sponge, and then rubbed it
twice vigorously across and down the prisoner’s face. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Never in my life have I seen such a sight. The man’s face peeled off
under the sponge like the bark from a tree. Gone was the coarse brown
tint! Gone, too, was the horrid scar which had seamed it across, and
the twisted lip which had given the repulsive sneer to the face! A
twitch brought away the tangled red hair, and there, sitting up in his
bed, was a pale, sad-faced, refined-looking man, black-haired and
smooth-skinned, rubbing his eyes and staring about him with sleepy
bewilderment. Then suddenly realising the exposure, he broke into a
scream and threw himself down with his face to the pillow. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The prisoner turned with the reckless air of a man who abandons himself
to his destiny. “Be it so,” said he. “And pray what am I charged with?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “With making away with Mr. Neville St.— Oh, come, you can’t be charged
with that unless they make a case of attempted suicide of it,” said the
inspector with a grin. “Well, I have been twenty-seven years in the
force, but this really takes the cake.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If I am Mr. Neville St. Clair, then it is obvious that no crime has
been committed, and that, therefore, I am illegally detained.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No crime, but a very great error has been committed,” said Holmes.
“You would have done better to have trusted your wife.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It was not the wife; it was the children,” groaned the prisoner. “God
help me, I would not have them ashamed of their father. My God! What an
exposure! What can I do?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If you leave it to a court of law to clear the matter up,” said he,
“of course you can hardly avoid publicity. On the other hand, if you
convince the police authorities that there is no possible case against
you, I do not know that there is any reason that the details should
find their way into the papers. Inspector Bradstreet would, I am sure,
make notes upon anything which you might tell us and submit it to the
proper authorities. The case would then never go into court at all.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “God bless you!” cried the prisoner passionately. “I would have endured
imprisonment, ay, even execution, rather than have left my miserable
secret as a family blot to my children. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You are the first who have ever heard my story. My father was a
schoolmaster in Chesterfield, where I received an excellent education.
I travelled in my youth, took to the stage, and finally became a
reporter on an evening paper in London. One day my editor wished to
have a series of articles upon begging in the metropolis, and I
volunteered to supply them. There was the point from which all my
adventures started. It was only by trying begging as an amateur that I
could get the facts upon which to base my articles. When an actor I
had, of course, learned all the secrets of making up, and had been
famous in the green-room for my skill. I took advantage now of my
attainments. I painted my face, and to make myself as pitiable as
possible I made a good scar and fixed one side of my lip in a twist by
the aid of a small slip of flesh-coloured plaster. Then with a red head
of hair, and an appropriate dress, I took my station in the business
part of the city, ostensibly as a match-seller but really as a beggar.
For seven hours I plied my trade, and when I returned home in the
evening I found to my surprise that I had received no less than 26_s_.
4_d_. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I wrote my articles and thought little more of the matter until, some
time later, I backed a bill for a friend and had a writ served upon me
for £ 25. I was at my wit’s end where to get the money, but a sudden
idea came to me. I begged a fortnight’s grace from the creditor, asked
for a holiday from my employers, and spent the time in begging in the
City under my disguise. In ten days I had the money and had paid the
debt. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, you can imagine how hard it was to settle down to arduous work
at £ 2 a week when I knew that I could earn as much in a day by
smearing my face with a little paint, laying my cap on the ground, and
sitting still. It was a long fight between my pride and the money, but
the dollars won at last, and I threw up reporting and sat day after day
in the corner which I had first chosen, inspiring pity by my ghastly
face and filling my pockets with coppers. Only one man knew my secret.
He was the keeper of a low den in which I used to lodge in Swandam
Lane, where I could every morning emerge as a squalid beggar and in the
evenings transform myself into a well-dressed man about town. This
fellow, a Lascar, was well paid by me for his rooms, so that I knew
that my secret was safe in his possession. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, very soon I found that I was saving considerable sums of money.
I do not mean that any beggar in the streets of London could earn £ 700
a year—which is less than my average takings—but I had exceptional
advantages in my power of making up, and also in a facility of
repartee, which improved by practice and made me quite a recognised
character in the City. All day a stream of pennies, varied by silver,
poured in upon me, and it was a very bad day in which I failed to take
£ 2. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “As I grew richer I grew more ambitious, took a house in the country,
and eventually married, without anyone having a suspicion as to my real
occupation. My dear wife knew that I had business in the City. She
little knew what. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Last Monday I had finished for the day and was dressing in my room
above the opium den when I looked out of my window and saw, to my
horror and astonishment, that my wife was standing in the street, with
her eyes fixed full upon me. I gave a cry of surprise, threw up my arms
to cover my face, and, rushing to my confidant, the Lascar, entreated
him to prevent anyone from coming up to me. I heard her voice
downstairs, but I knew that she could not ascend. Swiftly I threw off
my clothes, pulled on those of a beggar, and put on my pigments and
wig. Even a wife’s eyes could not pierce so complete a disguise. But
then it occurred to me that there might be a search in the room, and
that the clothes might betray me. I threw open the window, reopening by
my violence a small cut which I had inflicted upon myself in the
bedroom that morning. Then I seized my coat, which was weighted by the
coppers which I had just transferred to it from the leather bag in
which I carried my takings. I hurled it out of the window, and it
disappeared into the Thames. The other clothes would have followed, but
at that moment there was a rush of constables up the stair, and a few
minutes after I found, rather, I confess, to my relief, that instead of
being identified as Mr. Neville St. Clair, I was arrested as his
murderer. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I do not know that there is anything else for me to explain. I was
determined to preserve my disguise as long as possible, and hence my
preference for a dirty face. Knowing that my wife would be terribly
anxious, I slipped off my ring and confided it to the Lascar at a
moment when no constable was watching me, together with a hurried
scrawl, telling her that she had no cause to fear.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The police have watched this Lascar,” said Inspector Bradstreet, “and
I can quite understand that he might find it difficult to post a letter
unobserved. Probably he handed it to some sailor customer of his, who
forgot all about it for some days.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That was it,” said Holmes, nodding approvingly; “I have no doubt of
it. But have you never been prosecuted for begging?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It must stop here, however,” said Bradstreet. “If the police are to
hush this thing up, there must be no more of Hugh Boone.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “In that case I think that it is probable that no further steps may be
taken. But if you are found again, then all must come out. I am sure,
Mr. Holmes, that we are very much indebted to you for having cleared
the matter up. I wish I knew how you reach your results.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I reached this one,” said my friend, “by sitting upon five pillows and
consuming an ounce of shag. I think, Watson, that if we drive to Baker
Street we shall just be in time for breakfast.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I had called upon my friend Sherlock Holmes upon the second morning
after Christmas, with the intention of wishing him the compliments of
the season. He was lounging upon the sofa in a purple dressing-gown, a
pipe-rack within his reach upon the right, and a pile of crumpled
morning papers, evidently newly studied, near at hand. Beside the couch
was a wooden chair, and on the angle of the back hung a very seedy and
disreputable hard-felt hat, much the worse for wear, and cracked in
several places. A lens and a forceps lying upon the seat of the chair
suggested that the hat had been suspended in this manner for the
purpose of examination. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Not at all. I am glad to have a friend with whom I can discuss my
results. The matter is a perfectly trivial one”—he jerked his thumb in
the direction of the old hat—“but there are points in connection with
it which are not entirely devoid of interest and even of instruction.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I seated myself in his armchair and warmed my hands before his
crackling fire, for a sharp frost had set in, and the windows were
thick with the ice crystals. “I suppose,” I remarked, “that, homely as
it looks, this thing has some deadly story linked on to it—that it is
the clue which will guide you in the solution of some mystery and the
punishment of some crime.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No, no. No crime,” said Sherlock Holmes, laughing. “Only one of those
whimsical little incidents which will happen when you have four million
human beings all jostling each other within the space of a few square
miles. Amid the action and reaction of so dense a swarm of humanity,
every possible combination of events may be expected to take place, and
many a little problem will be presented which may be striking and
bizarre without being criminal. We have already had experience of
such.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “So much so,” I remarked, “that of the last six cases which I have
added to my notes, three have been entirely free of any legal crime.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Precisely. You allude to my attempt to recover the Irene Adler papers,
to the singular case of Miss Mary Sutherland, and to the adventure of
the man with the twisted lip. Well, I have no doubt that this small
matter will fall into the same innocent category. You know Peterson,
the commissionaire?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No, no, he found it. Its owner is unknown. I beg that you will look
upon it not as a battered billycock but as an intellectual problem.
And, first, as to how it came here. It arrived upon Christmas morning,
in company with a good fat goose, which is, I have no doubt, roasting
at this moment in front of Peterson’s fire. The facts are these: about
four o’clock on Christmas morning, Peterson, who, as you know, is a
very honest fellow, was returning from some small jollification and was
making his way homeward down Tottenham Court Road. In front of him he
saw, in the gaslight, a tallish man, walking with a slight stagger, and
carrying a white goose slung over his shoulder. As he reached the
corner of Goodge Street, a row broke out between this stranger and a
little knot of roughs. One of the latter knocked off the man’s hat, on
which he raised his stick to defend himself and, swinging it over his
head, smashed the shop window behind him. Peterson had rushed forward
to protect the stranger from his assailants; but the man, shocked at
having broken the window, and seeing an official-looking person in
uniform rushing towards him, dropped his goose, took to his heels, and
vanished amid the labyrinth of small streets which lie at the back of
Tottenham Court Road. The roughs had also fled at the appearance of
Peterson, so that he was left in possession of the field of battle, and
also of the spoils of victory in the shape of this battered hat and a
most unimpeachable Christmas goose.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My dear fellow, there lies the problem. It is true that ‘For Mrs.
Henry Baker’ was printed upon a small card which was tied to the bird’s
left leg, and it is also true that the initials ‘H. B.’ are legible
upon the lining of this hat, but as there are some thousands of Bakers,
and some hundreds of Henry Bakers in this city of ours, it is not easy
to restore lost property to any one of them.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He brought round both hat and goose to me on Christmas morning,
knowing that even the smallest problems are of interest to me. The
goose we retained until this morning, when there were signs that, in
spite of the slight frost, it would be well that it should be eaten
without unnecessary delay. Its finder has carried it off, therefore, to
fulfil the ultimate destiny of a goose, while I continue to retain the
hat of the unknown gentleman who lost his Christmas dinner.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Here is my lens. You know my methods. What can you gather yourself as
to the individuality of the man who has worn this article?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I took the tattered object in my hands and turned it over rather
ruefully. It was a very ordinary black hat of the usual round shape,
hard and much the worse for wear. The lining had been of red silk, but
was a good deal discoloured. There was no maker’s name; but, as Holmes
had remarked, the initials “H. B.” were scrawled upon one side. It was
pierced in the brim for a hat-securer, but the elastic was missing. For
the rest, it was cracked, exceedingly dusty, and spotted in several
places, although there seemed to have been some attempt to hide the
discoloured patches by smearing them with ink. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “On the contrary, Watson, you can see everything. You fail, however, to
reason from what you see. You are too timid in drawing your
inferences.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He picked it up and gazed at it in the peculiar introspective fashion
which was characteristic of him. “It is perhaps less suggestive than it
might have been,” he remarked, “and yet there are a few inferences
which are very distinct, and a few others which represent at least a
strong balance of probability. That the man was highly intellectual is
of course obvious upon the face of it, and also that he was fairly
well-to-do within the last three years, although he has now fallen upon
evil days. He had foresight, but has less now than formerly, pointing
to a moral retrogression, which, when taken with the decline of his
fortunes, seems to indicate some evil influence, probably drink, at
work upon him. This may account also for the obvious fact that his wife
has ceased to love him.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He has, however, retained some degree of self-respect,” he continued,
disregarding my remonstrance. “He is a man who leads a sedentary life,
goes out little, is out of training entirely, is middle-aged, has
grizzled hair which he has had cut within the last few days, and which
he anoints with lime-cream. These are the more patent facts which are
to be deduced from his hat. Also, by the way, that it is extremely
improbable that he has gas laid on in his house.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Not in the least. Is it possible that even now, when I give you these
results, you are unable to see how they are attained?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have no doubt that I am very stupid, but I must confess that I am
unable to follow you. For example, how did you deduce that this man was
intellectual?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> For answer Holmes clapped the hat upon his head. It came right over the
forehead and settled upon the bridge of his nose. “It is a question of
cubic capacity,” said he; “a man with so large a brain must have
something in it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This hat is three years old. These flat brims curled at the edge came
in then. It is a hat of the very best quality. Look at the band of
ribbed silk and the excellent lining. If this man could afford to buy
so expensive a hat three years ago, and has had no hat since, then he
has assuredly gone down in the world.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Sherlock Holmes laughed. “Here is the foresight,” said he putting his
finger upon the little disc and loop of the hat-securer. “They are
never sold upon hats. If this man ordered one, it is a sign of a
certain amount of foresight, since he went out of his way to take this
precaution against the wind. But since we see that he has broken the
elastic and has not troubled to replace it, it is obvious that he has
less foresight now than formerly, which is a distinct proof of a
weakening nature. On the other hand, he has endeavoured to conceal some
of these stains upon the felt by daubing them with ink, which is a sign
that he has not entirely lost his self-respect.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The further points, that he is middle-aged, that his hair is grizzled,
that it has been recently cut, and that he uses lime-cream, are all to
be gathered from a close examination of the lower part of the lining.
The lens discloses a large number of hair-ends, clean cut by the
scissors of the barber. They all appear to be adhesive, and there is a
distinct odour of lime-cream. This dust, you will observe, is not the
gritty, grey dust of the street but the fluffy brown dust of the house,
showing that it has been hung up indoors most of the time, while the
marks of moisture upon the inside are proof positive that the wearer
perspired very freely, and could therefore, hardly be in the best of
training.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This hat has not been brushed for weeks. When I see you, my dear
Watson, with a week’s accumulation of dust upon your hat, and when your
wife allows you to go out in such a state, I shall fear that you also
have been unfortunate enough to lose your wife’s affection.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You have an answer to everything. But how on earth do you deduce that
the gas is not laid on in his house?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “One tallow stain, or even two, might come by chance; but when I see no
less than five, I think that there can be little doubt that the
individual must be brought into frequent contact with burning
tallow—walks upstairs at night probably with his hat in one hand and a
guttering candle in the other. Anyhow, he never got tallow-stains from
a gas-jet. Are you satisfied?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, it is very ingenious,” said I, laughing; “but since, as you said
just now, there has been no crime committed, and no harm done save the
loss of a goose, all this seems to be rather a waste of energy.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Sherlock Holmes had opened his mouth to reply, when the door flew open,
and Peterson, the commissionaire, rushed into the apartment with
flushed cheeks and the face of a man who is dazed with astonishment. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Eh? What of it, then? Has it returned to life and flapped off through
the kitchen window?” Holmes twisted himself round upon the sofa to get
a fairer view of the man’s excited face. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “See here, sir! See what my wife found in its crop!” He held out his
hand and displayed upon the centre of the palm a brilliantly
scintillating blue stone, rather smaller than a bean in size, but of
such purity and radiance that it twinkled like an electric point in the
dark hollow of his hand. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Sherlock Holmes sat up with a whistle. “By Jove, Peterson!” said he,
“this is treasure trove indeed. I suppose you know what you have got?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Precisely so. I ought to know its size and shape, seeing that I have
read the advertisement about it in _The Times_ every day lately. It is
absolutely unique, and its value can only be conjectured, but the
reward offered of £ 1000 is certainly not within a twentieth part of
the market price.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “A thousand pounds! Great Lord of mercy!” The commissionaire plumped
down into a chair and stared from one to the other of us. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That is the reward, and I have reason to know that there are
sentimental considerations in the background which would induce the
Countess to part with half her fortune if she could but recover the
gem.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Precisely so, on December 22nd, just five days ago. John Horner, a
plumber, was accused of having abstracted it from the lady’s
jewel-case. The evidence against him was so strong that the case has
been referred to the Assizes. I have some account of the matter here, I
believe.” He rummaged amid his newspapers, glancing over the dates,
until at last he smoothed one out, doubled it over, and read the
following paragraph: </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Hotel Cosmopolitan Jewel Robbery. John Horner, 26, plumber, was
brought up upon the charge of having upon the 22nd inst., abstracted
from the jewel-case of the Countess of Morcar the valuable gem known as
the blue carbuncle. James Ryder, upper-attendant at the hotel, gave his
evidence to the effect that he had shown Horner up to the dressing-room
of the Countess of Morcar upon the day of the robbery in order that he
might solder the second bar of the grate, which was loose. He had
remained with Horner some little time, but had finally been called
away. On returning, he found that Horner had disappeared, that the
bureau had been forced open, and that the small morocco casket in
which, as it afterwards transpired, the Countess was accustomed to keep
her jewel, was lying empty upon the dressing-table. Ryder instantly
gave the alarm, and Horner was arrested the same evening; but the stone
could not be found either upon his person or in his rooms. Catherine
Cusack, maid to the Countess, deposed to having heard Ryder’s cry of
dismay on discovering the robbery, and to having rushed into the room,
where she found matters as described by the last witness. Inspector
Bradstreet, B division, gave evidence as to the arrest of Horner, who
struggled frantically, and protested his innocence in the strongest
terms. Evidence of a previous conviction for robbery having been given
against the prisoner, the magistrate refused to deal summarily with the
offence, but referred it to the Assizes. Horner, who had shown signs of
intense emotion during the proceedings, fainted away at the conclusion
and was carried out of court.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Hum! So much for the police-court,” said Holmes thoughtfully, tossing
aside the paper. “The question for us now to solve is the sequence of
events leading from a rifled jewel-case at one end to the crop of a
goose in Tottenham Court Road at the other. You see, Watson, our little
deductions have suddenly assumed a much more important and less
innocent aspect. Here is the stone; the stone came from the goose, and
the goose came from Mr. Henry Baker, the gentleman with the bad hat and
all the other characteristics with which I have bored you. So now we
must set ourselves very seriously to finding this gentleman and
ascertaining what part he has played in this little mystery. To do
this, we must try the simplest means first, and these lie undoubtedly
in an advertisement in all the evening papers. If this fail, I shall
have recourse to other methods.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Give me a pencil and that slip of paper. Now, then: ‘Found at the
corner of Goodge Street, a goose and a black felt hat. Mr. Henry Baker
can have the same by applying at 6:30 this evening at 221B, Baker
Street.’ That is clear and concise.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, he is sure to keep an eye on the papers, since, to a poor man,
the loss was a heavy one. He was clearly so scared by his mischance in
breaking the window and by the approach of Peterson that he thought of
nothing but flight, but since then he must have bitterly regretted the
impulse which caused him to drop his bird. Then, again, the
introduction of his name will cause him to see it, for everyone who
knows him will direct his attention to it. Here you are, Peterson, run
down to the advertising agency and have this put in the evening
papers.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, in the _Globe_, _Star_, _Pall Mall_, _St. James’s Gazette_,
_Evening News_, _Standard_, _Echo_, and any others that occur to you.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Ah, yes, I shall keep the stone. Thank you. And, I say, Peterson, just
buy a goose on your way back and leave it here with me, for we must
have one to give to this gentleman in place of the one which your
family is now devouring.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When the commissionaire had gone, Holmes took up the stone and held it
against the light. “It’s a bonny thing,” said he. “Just see how it
glints and sparkles. Of course it is a nucleus and focus of crime.
Every good stone is. They are the devil’s pet baits. In the larger and
older jewels every facet may stand for a bloody deed. This stone is not
yet twenty years old. It was found in the banks of the Amoy River in
southern China and is remarkable in having every characteristic of the
carbuncle, save that it is blue in shade instead of ruby red. In spite
of its youth, it has already a sinister history. There have been two
murders, a vitriol-throwing, a suicide, and several robberies brought
about for the sake of this forty-grain weight of crystallised charcoal.
Who would think that so pretty a toy would be a purveyor to the gallows
and the prison? I’ll lock it up in my strong box now and drop a line to
the Countess to say that we have it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is, I think, much more likely that Henry Baker is an absolutely
innocent man, who had no idea that the bird which he was carrying was
of considerably more value than if it were made of solid gold. That,
however, I shall determine by a very simple test if we have an answer
to our advertisement.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “In that case I shall continue my professional round. But I shall come
back in the evening at the hour you have mentioned, for I should like
to see the solution of so tangled a business.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Very glad to see you. I dine at seven. There is a woodcock, I believe.
By the way, in view of recent occurrences, perhaps I ought to ask Mrs.
Hudson to examine its crop.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I had been delayed at a case, and it was a little after half-past six
when I found myself in Baker Street once more. As I approached the
house I saw a tall man in a Scotch bonnet with a coat which was
buttoned up to his chin waiting outside in the bright semicircle which
was thrown from the fanlight. Just as I arrived the door was opened,
and we were shown up together to Holmes’ room. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Mr. Henry Baker, I believe,” said he, rising from his armchair and
greeting his visitor with the easy air of geniality which he could so
readily assume. “Pray take this chair by the fire, Mr. Baker. It is a
cold night, and I observe that your circulation is more adapted for
summer than for winter. Ah, Watson, you have just come at the right
time. Is that your hat, Mr. Baker?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He was a large man with rounded shoulders, a massive head, and a broad,
intelligent face, sloping down to a pointed beard of grizzled brown. A
touch of red in nose and cheeks, with a slight tremor of his extended
hand, recalled Holmes’ surmise as to his habits. His rusty black
frock-coat was buttoned right up in front, with the collar turned up,
and his lank wrists protruded from his sleeves without a sign of cuff
or shirt. He spoke in a slow staccato fashion, choosing his words with
care, and gave the impression generally of a man of learning and
letters who had had ill-usage at the hands of fortune. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “We have retained these things for some days,” said Holmes, “because we
expected to see an advertisement from you giving your address. I am at
a loss to know now why you did not advertise.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Our visitor gave a rather shamefaced laugh. “Shillings have not been so
plentiful with me as they once were,” he remarked. “I had no doubt that
the gang of roughs who assaulted me had carried off both my hat and the
bird. I did not care to spend more money in a hopeless attempt at
recovering them.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, it would have been of no use to anyone had we not done so. But I
presume that this other goose upon the sideboard, which is about the
same weight and perfectly fresh, will answer your purpose equally
well?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The man burst into a hearty laugh. “They might be useful to me as
relics of my adventure,” said he, “but beyond that I can hardly see
what use the _disjecta membra_ of my late acquaintance are going to be
to me. No, sir, I think that, with your permission, I will confine my
attentions to the excellent bird which I perceive upon the sideboard.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “There is your hat, then, and there your bird,” said he. “By the way,
would it bore you to tell me where you got the other one from? I am
somewhat of a fowl fancier, and I have seldom seen a better grown
goose.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Certainly, sir,” said Baker, who had risen and tucked his newly gained
property under his arm. “There are a few of us who frequent the Alpha
Inn, near the Museum—we are to be found in the Museum itself during the
day, you understand. This year our good host, Windigate by name,
instituted a goose club, by which, on consideration of some few pence
every week, we were each to receive a bird at Christmas. My pence were
duly paid, and the rest is familiar to you. I am much indebted to you,
sir, for a Scotch bonnet is fitted neither to my years nor my gravity.”
With a comical pomposity of manner he bowed solemnly to both of us and
strode off upon his way. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “So much for Mr. Henry Baker,” said Holmes when he had closed the door
behind him. “It is quite certain that he knows nothing whatever about
the matter. Are you hungry, Watson?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Then I suggest that we turn our dinner into a supper and follow up
this clue while it is still hot.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was a bitter night, so we drew on our ulsters and wrapped cravats
about our throats. Outside, the stars were shining coldly in a
cloudless sky, and the breath of the passers-by blew out into smoke
like so many pistol shots. Our footfalls rang out crisply and loudly as
we swung through the doctors’ quarter, Wimpole Street, Harley Street,
and so through Wigmore Street into Oxford Street. In a quarter of an
hour we were in Bloomsbury at the Alpha Inn, which is a small
public-house at the corner of one of the streets which runs down into
Holborn. Holmes pushed open the door of the private bar and ordered two
glasses of beer from the ruddy-faced, white-aproned landlord. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes. I was speaking only half an hour ago to Mr. Henry Baker, who was
a member of your goose club.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Now for Mr. Breckinridge,” he continued, buttoning up his coat as we
came out into the frosty air. “Remember, Watson that though we have so
homely a thing as a goose at one end of this chain, we have at the
other a man who will certainly get seven years’ penal servitude unless
we can establish his innocence. It is possible that our inquiry may but
confirm his guilt; but, in any case, we have a line of investigation
which has been missed by the police, and which a singular chance has
placed in our hands. Let us follow it out to the bitter end. Faces to
the south, then, and quick march!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We passed across Holborn, down Endell Street, and so through a zigzag
of slums to Covent Garden Market. One of the largest stalls bore the
name of Breckinridge upon it, and the proprietor a horsey-looking man,
with a sharp face and trim side-whiskers was helping a boy to put up
the shutters. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Now, then, mister,” said he, with his head cocked and his arms akimbo,
“what are you driving at? Let’s have it straight, now.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, it is a matter of no importance; but I don’t know why you should
be so warm over such a trifle.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Warm! You’d be as warm, maybe, if you were as pestered as I am. When I
pay good money for a good article there should be an end of the
business; but it’s ‘Where are the geese?’ and ‘Who did you sell the
geese to?’ and ‘What will you take for the geese?’ One would think they
were the only geese in the world, to hear the fuss that is made over
them.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, I have no connection with any other people who have been making
inquiries,” said Holmes carelessly. “If you won’t tell us the bet is
off, that is all. But I’m always ready to back my opinion on a matter
of fowls, and I have a fiver on it that the bird I ate is country
bred.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “D’you think you know more about fowls than I, who have handled them
ever since I was a nipper? I tell you, all those birds that went to the
Alpha were town bred.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It’s merely taking your money, for I know that I am right. But I’ll
have a sovereign on with you, just to teach you not to be obstinate.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The small boy brought round a small thin volume and a great
greasy-backed one, laying them out together beneath the hanging lamp. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Now then, Mr. Cocksure,” said the salesman, “I thought that I was out
of geese, but before I finish you’ll find that there is still one left
in my shop. You see this little book?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That’s the list of the folk from whom I buy. D’you see? Well, then,
here on this page are the country folk, and the numbers after their
names are where their accounts are in the big ledger. Now, then! You
see this other page in red ink? Well, that is a list of my town
suppliers. Now, look at that third name. Just read it out to me.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Sherlock Holmes looked deeply chagrined. He drew a sovereign from his
pocket and threw it down upon the slab, turning away with the air of a
man whose disgust is too deep for words. A few yards off he stopped
under a lamp-post and laughed in the hearty, noiseless fashion which
was peculiar to him. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “When you see a man with whiskers of that cut and the ‘Pink ’un’
protruding out of his pocket, you can always draw him by a bet,” said
he. “I daresay that if I had put £ 100 down in front of him, that man
would not have given me such complete information as was drawn from him
by the idea that he was doing me on a wager. Well, Watson, we are, I
fancy, nearing the end of our quest, and the only point which remains
to be determined is whether we should go on to this Mrs. Oakshott
to-night, or whether we should reserve it for to-morrow. It is clear
from what that surly fellow said that there are others besides
ourselves who are anxious about the matter, and I should—” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> His remarks were suddenly cut short by a loud hubbub which broke out
from the stall which we had just left. Turning round we saw a little
rat-faced fellow standing in the centre of the circle of yellow light
which was thrown by the swinging lamp, while Breckinridge, the
salesman, framed in the door of his stall, was shaking his fists
fiercely at the cringing figure. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I’ve had enough of you and your geese,” he shouted. “I wish you were
all at the devil together. If you come pestering me any more with your
silly talk I’ll set the dog at you. You bring Mrs. Oakshott here and
I’ll answer her, but what have you to do with it? Did I buy the geese
off you?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, you can ask the King of Proosia, for all I care. I’ve had enough
of it. Get out of this!” He rushed fiercely forward, and the inquirer
flitted away into the darkness. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Ha! this may save us a visit to Brixton Road,” whispered Holmes. “Come
with me, and we will see what is to be made of this fellow.” Striding
through the scattered knots of people who lounged round the flaring
stalls, my companion speedily overtook the little man and touched him
upon the shoulder. He sprang round, and I could see in the gas-light
that every vestige of colour had been driven from his face. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You will excuse me,” said Holmes blandly, “but I could not help
overhearing the questions which you put to the salesman just now. I
think that I could be of assistance to you.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Excuse me, I know everything of it. You are endeavouring to trace some
geese which were sold by Mrs. Oakshott, of Brixton Road, to a salesman
named Breckinridge, by him in turn to Mr. Windigate, of the Alpha, and
by him to his club, of which Mr. Henry Baker is a member.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, sir, you are the very man whom I have longed to meet,” cried the
little fellow with outstretched hands and quivering fingers. “I can
hardly explain to you how interested I am in this matter.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Sherlock Holmes hailed a four-wheeler which was passing. “In that case
we had better discuss it in a cosy room rather than in this wind-swept
market-place,” said he. “But pray tell me, before we go farther, who it
is that I have the pleasure of assisting.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Precisely so. Head attendant at the Hotel Cosmopolitan. Pray step into
the cab, and I shall soon be able to tell you everything which you
would wish to know.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The little man stood glancing from one to the other of us with
half-frightened, half-hopeful eyes, as one who is not sure whether he
is on the verge of a windfall or of a catastrophe. Then he stepped into
the cab, and in half an hour we were back in the sitting-room at Baker
Street. Nothing had been said during our drive, but the high, thin
breathing of our new companion, and the claspings and unclaspings of
his hands, spoke of the nervous tension within him. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Here we are!” said Holmes cheerily as we filed into the room. “The
fire looks very seasonable in this weather. You look cold, Mr. Ryder.
Pray take the basket-chair. I will just put on my slippers before we
settle this little matter of yours. Now, then! You want to know what
became of those geese?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Or rather, I fancy, of that goose. It was one bird, I imagine in which
you were interested—white, with a black bar across the tail.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, and a most remarkable bird it proved. I don’t wonder that you
should take an interest in it. It laid an egg after it was dead—the
bonniest, brightest little blue egg that ever was seen. I have it here
in my museum.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Our visitor staggered to his feet and clutched the mantelpiece with his
right hand. Holmes unlocked his strong-box and held up the blue
carbuncle, which shone out like a star, with a cold, brilliant,
many-pointed radiance. Ryder stood glaring with a drawn face, uncertain
whether to claim or to disown it. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The game’s up, Ryder,” said Holmes quietly. “Hold up, man, or you’ll
be into the fire! Give him an arm back into his chair, Watson. He’s not
got blood enough to go in for felony with impunity. Give him a dash of
brandy. So! Now he looks a little more human. What a shrimp it is, to
be sure!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> For a moment he had staggered and nearly fallen, but the brandy brought
a tinge of colour into his cheeks, and he sat staring with frightened
eyes at his accuser. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have almost every link in my hands, and all the proofs which I could
possibly need, so there is little which you need tell me. Still, that
little may as well be cleared up to make the case complete. You had
heard, Ryder, of this blue stone of the Countess of Morcar’s?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I see—her ladyship’s waiting-maid. Well, the temptation of sudden
wealth so easily acquired was too much for you, as it has been for
better men before you; but you were not very scrupulous in the means
you used. It seems to me, Ryder, that there is the making of a very
pretty villain in you. You knew that this man Horner, the plumber, had
been concerned in some such matter before, and that suspicion would
rest the more readily upon him. What did you do, then? You made some
small job in my lady’s room—you and your confederate Cusack—and you
managed that he should be the man sent for. Then, when he had left, you
rifled the jewel-case, raised the alarm, and had this unfortunate man
arrested. You then—” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Ryder threw himself down suddenly upon the rug and clutched at my
companion’s knees. “For God’s sake, have mercy!” he shrieked. “Think of
my father! Of my mother! It would break their hearts. I never went
wrong before! I never will again. I swear it. I’ll swear it on a Bible.
Oh, don’t bring it into court! For Christ’s sake, don’t!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Get back into your chair!” said Holmes sternly. “It is very well to
cringe and crawl now, but you thought little enough of this poor Horner
in the dock for a crime of which he knew nothing.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Hum! We will talk about that. And now let us hear a true account of
the next act. How came the stone into the goose, and how came the goose
into the open market? Tell us the truth, for there lies your only hope
of safety.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Ryder passed his tongue over his parched lips. “I will tell you it just
as it happened, sir,” said he. “When Horner had been arrested, it
seemed to me that it would be best for me to get away with the stone at
once, for I did not know at what moment the police might not take it
into their heads to search me and my room. There was no place about the
hotel where it would be safe. I went out, as if on some commission, and
I made for my sister’s house. She had married a man named Oakshott, and
lived in Brixton Road, where she fattened fowls for the market. All the
way there every man I met seemed to me to be a policeman or a
detective; and, for all that it was a cold night, the sweat was pouring
down my face before I came to the Brixton Road. My sister asked me what
was the matter, and why I was so pale; but I told her that I had been
upset by the jewel robbery at the hotel. Then I went into the back yard
and smoked a pipe and wondered what it would be best to do. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I had a friend once called Maudsley, who went to the bad, and has just
been serving his time in Pentonville. One day he had met me, and fell
into talk about the ways of thieves, and how they could get rid of what
they stole. I knew that he would be true to me, for I knew one or two
things about him; so I made up my mind to go right on to Kilburn, where
he lived, and take him into my confidence. He would show me how to turn
the stone into money. But how to get to him in safety? I thought of the
agonies I had gone through in coming from the hotel. I might at any
moment be seized and searched, and there would be the stone in my
waistcoat pocket. I was leaning against the wall at the time and
looking at the geese which were waddling about round my feet, and
suddenly an idea came into my head which showed me how I could beat the
best detective that ever lived. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My sister had told me some weeks before that I might have the pick of
her geese for a Christmas present, and I knew that she was always as
good as her word. I would take my goose now, and in it I would carry my
stone to Kilburn. There was a little shed in the yard, and behind this
I drove one of the birds—a fine big one, white, with a barred tail. I
caught it, and prying its bill open, I thrust the stone down its throat
as far as my finger could reach. The bird gave a gulp, and I felt the
stone pass along its gullet and down into its crop. But the creature
flapped and struggled, and out came my sister to know what was the
matter. As I turned to speak to her the brute broke loose and fluttered
off among the others. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Oh,’ says she, ‘we’ve set yours aside for you—Jem’s bird, we call it.
It’s the big white one over yonder. There’s twenty-six of them, which
makes one for you, and one for us, and two dozen for the market.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Thank you, Maggie,’ says I; ‘but if it is all the same to you, I’d
rather have that one I was handling just now.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, I did what she said, Mr. Holmes, and I carried the bird all the
way to Kilburn. I told my pal what I had done, for he was a man that it
was easy to tell a thing like that to. He laughed until he choked, and
we got a knife and opened the goose. My heart turned to water, for
there was no sign of the stone, and I knew that some terrible mistake
had occurred. I left the bird, rushed back to my sister’s, and hurried
into the back yard. There was not a bird to be seen there. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, then, of course I saw it all, and I ran off as hard as my feet
would carry me to this man Breckinridge; but he had sold the lot at
once, and not one word would he tell me as to where they had gone. You
heard him yourselves to-night. Well, he has always answered me like
that. My sister thinks that I am going mad. Sometimes I think that I am
myself. And now—and now I am myself a branded thief, without ever
having touched the wealth for which I sold my character. God help me!
God help me!” He burst into convulsive sobbing, with his face buried in
his hands. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> There was a long silence, broken only by his heavy breathing and by the
measured tapping of Sherlock Holmes’ finger-tips upon the edge of the
table. Then my friend rose and threw open the door. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> And no more words were needed. There was a rush, a clatter upon the
stairs, the bang of a door, and the crisp rattle of running footfalls
from the street. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “After all, Watson,” said Holmes, reaching up his hand for his clay
pipe, “I am not retained by the police to supply their deficiencies. If
Horner were in danger it would be another thing; but this fellow will
not appear against him, and the case must collapse. I suppose that I am
commuting a felony, but it is just possible that I am saving a soul.
This fellow will not go wrong again; he is too terribly frightened.
Send him to gaol now, and you make him a gaol-bird for life. Besides,
it is the season of forgiveness. Chance has put in our way a most
singular and whimsical problem, and its solution is its own reward. If
you will have the goodness to touch the bell, Doctor, we will begin
another investigation, in which, also a bird will be the chief
feature.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> On glancing over my notes of the seventy odd cases in which I have
during the last eight years studied the methods of my friend Sherlock
Holmes, I find many tragic, some comic, a large number merely strange,
but none commonplace; for, working as he did rather for the love of his
art than for the acquirement of wealth, he refused to associate himself
with any investigation which did not tend towards the unusual, and even
the fantastic. Of all these varied cases, however, I cannot recall any
which presented more singular features than that which was associated
with the well-known Surrey family of the Roylotts of Stoke Moran. The
events in question occurred in the early days of my association with
Holmes, when we were sharing rooms as bachelors in Baker Street. It is
possible that I might have placed them upon record before, but a
promise of secrecy was made at the time, from which I have only been
freed during the last month by the untimely death of the lady to whom
the pledge was given. It is perhaps as well that the facts should now
come to light, for I have reasons to know that there are widespread
rumours as to the death of Dr. Grimesby Roylott which tend to make the
matter even more terrible than the truth. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was early in April in the year ’83 that I woke one morning to find
Sherlock Holmes standing, fully dressed, by the side of my bed. He was
a late riser, as a rule, and as the clock on the mantelpiece showed me
that it was only a quarter-past seven, I blinked up at him in some
surprise, and perhaps just a little resentment, for I was myself
regular in my habits. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Very sorry to knock you up, Watson,” said he, “but it’s the common lot
this morning. Mrs. Hudson has been knocked up, she retorted upon me,
and I on you.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No; a client. It seems that a young lady has arrived in a considerable
state of excitement, who insists upon seeing me. She is waiting now in
the sitting-room. Now, when young ladies wander about the metropolis at
this hour of the morning, and knock sleepy people up out of their beds,
I presume that it is something very pressing which they have to
communicate. Should it prove to be an interesting case, you would, I am
sure, wish to follow it from the outset. I thought, at any rate, that I
should call you and give you the chance.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I had no keener pleasure than in following Holmes in his professional
investigations, and in admiring the rapid deductions, as swift as
intuitions, and yet always founded on a logical basis with which he
unravelled the problems which were submitted to him. I rapidly threw on
my clothes and was ready in a few minutes to accompany my friend down
to the sitting-room. A lady dressed in black and heavily veiled, who
had been sitting in the window, rose as we entered. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Good-morning, madam,” said Holmes cheerily. “My name is Sherlock
Holmes. This is my intimate friend and associate, Dr. Watson, before
whom you can speak as freely as before myself. Ha! I am glad to see
that Mrs. Hudson has had the good sense to light the fire. Pray draw up
to it, and I shall order you a cup of hot coffee, for I observe that
you are shivering.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is fear, Mr. Holmes. It is terror.” She raised her veil as she
spoke, and we could see that she was indeed in a pitiable state of
agitation, her face all drawn and grey, with restless frightened eyes,
like those of some hunted animal. Her features and figure were those of
a woman of thirty, but her hair was shot with premature grey, and her
expression was weary and haggard. Sherlock Holmes ran her over with one
of his quick, all-comprehensive glances. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You must not fear,” said he soothingly, bending forward and patting
her forearm. “We shall soon set matters right, I have no doubt. You
have come in by train this morning, I see.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No, but I observe the second half of a return ticket in the palm of
your left glove. You must have started early, and yet you had a good
drive in a dog-cart, along heavy roads, before you reached the
station.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “There is no mystery, my dear madam,” said he, smiling. “The left arm
of your jacket is spattered with mud in no less than seven places. The
marks are perfectly fresh. There is no vehicle save a dog-cart which
throws up mud in that way, and then only when you sit on the left-hand
side of the driver.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Whatever your reasons may be, you are perfectly correct,” said she. “I
started from home before six, reached Leatherhead at twenty past, and
came in by the first train to Waterloo. Sir, I can stand this strain no
longer; I shall go mad if it continues. I have no one to turn to—none,
save only one, who cares for me, and he, poor fellow, can be of little
aid. I have heard of you, Mr. Holmes; I have heard of you from Mrs.
Farintosh, whom you helped in the hour of her sore need. It was from
her that I had your address. Oh, sir, do you not think that you could
help me, too, and at least throw a little light through the dense
darkness which surrounds me? At present it is out of my power to reward
you for your services, but in a month or six weeks I shall be married,
with the control of my own income, and then at least you shall not find
me ungrateful.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Farintosh,” said he. “Ah yes, I recall the case; it was concerned with
an opal tiara. I think it was before your time, Watson. I can only say,
madam, that I shall be happy to devote the same care to your case as I
did to that of your friend. As to reward, my profession is its own
reward; but you are at liberty to defray whatever expenses I may be put
to, at the time which suits you best. And now I beg that you will lay
before us everything that may help us in forming an opinion upon the
matter.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Alas!” replied our visitor, “the very horror of my situation lies in
the fact that my fears are so vague, and my suspicions depend so
entirely upon small points, which might seem trivial to another, that
even he to whom of all others I have a right to look for help and
advice looks upon all that I tell him about it as the fancies of a
nervous woman. He does not say so, but I can read it from his soothing
answers and averted eyes. But I have heard, Mr. Holmes, that you can
see deeply into the manifold wickedness of the human heart. You may
advise me how to walk amid the dangers which encompass me.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My name is Helen Stoner, and I am living with my stepfather, who is
the last survivor of one of the oldest Saxon families in England, the
Roylotts of Stoke Moran, on the western border of Surrey.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The family was at one time among the richest in England, and the
estates extended over the borders into Berkshire in the north, and
Hampshire in the west. In the last century, however, four successive
heirs were of a dissolute and wasteful disposition, and the family ruin
was eventually completed by a gambler in the days of the Regency.
Nothing was left save a few acres of ground, and the
two-hundred-year-old house, which is itself crushed under a heavy
mortgage. The last squire dragged out his existence there, living the
horrible life of an aristocratic pauper; but his only son, my
stepfather, seeing that he must adapt himself to the new conditions,
obtained an advance from a relative, which enabled him to take a
medical degree and went out to Calcutta, where, by his professional
skill and his force of character, he established a large practice. In a
fit of anger, however, caused by some robberies which had been
perpetrated in the house, he beat his native butler to death and
narrowly escaped a capital sentence. As it was, he suffered a long term
of imprisonment and afterwards returned to England a morose and
disappointed man. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “When Dr. Roylott was in India he married my mother, Mrs. Stoner, the
young widow of Major-General Stoner, of the Bengal Artillery. My sister
Julia and I were twins, and we were only two years old at the time of
my mother’s re-marriage. She had a considerable sum of money—not less
than £ 1000 a year—and this she bequeathed to Dr. Roylott entirely
while we resided with him, with a provision that a certain annual sum
should be allowed to each of us in the event of our marriage. Shortly
after our return to England my mother died—she was killed eight years
ago in a railway accident near Crewe. Dr. Roylott then abandoned his
attempts to establish himself in practice in London and took us to live
with him in the old ancestral house at Stoke Moran. The money which my
mother had left was enough for all our wants, and there seemed to be no
obstacle to our happiness. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But a terrible change came over our stepfather about this time.
Instead of making friends and exchanging visits with our neighbours,
who had at first been overjoyed to see a Roylott of Stoke Moran back in
the old family seat, he shut himself up in his house and seldom came
out save to indulge in ferocious quarrels with whoever might cross his
path. Violence of temper approaching to mania has been hereditary in
the men of the family, and in my stepfather’s case it had, I believe,
been intensified by his long residence in the tropics. A series of
disgraceful brawls took place, two of which ended in the police-court,
until at last he became the terror of the village, and the folks would
fly at his approach, for he is a man of immense strength, and
absolutely uncontrollable in his anger. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Last week he hurled the local blacksmith over a parapet into a stream,
and it was only by paying over all the money which I could gather
together that I was able to avert another public exposure. He had no
friends at all save the wandering gipsies, and he would give these
vagabonds leave to encamp upon the few acres of bramble-covered land
which represent the family estate, and would accept in return the
hospitality of their tents, wandering away with them sometimes for
weeks on end. He has a passion also for Indian animals, which are sent
over to him by a correspondent, and he has at this moment a cheetah and
a baboon, which wander freely over his grounds and are feared by the
villagers almost as much as their master. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You can imagine from what I say that my poor sister Julia and I had no
great pleasure in our lives. No servant would stay with us, and for a
long time we did all the work of the house. She was but thirty at the
time of her death, and yet her hair had already begun to whiten, even
as mine has.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “She died just two years ago, and it is of her death that I wish to
speak to you. You can understand that, living the life which I have
described, we were little likely to see anyone of our own age and
position. We had, however, an aunt, my mother’s maiden sister, Miss
Honoria Westphail, who lives near Harrow, and we were occasionally
allowed to pay short visits at this lady’s house. Julia went there at
Christmas two years ago, and met there a half-pay major of marines, to
whom she became engaged. My stepfather learned of the engagement when
my sister returned and offered no objection to the marriage; but within
a fortnight of the day which had been fixed for the wedding, the
terrible event occurred which has deprived me of my only companion.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Sherlock Holmes had been leaning back in his chair with his eyes closed
and his head sunk in a cushion, but he half opened his lids now and
glanced across at his visitor. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is easy for me to be so, for every event of that dreadful time is
seared into my memory. The manor-house is, as I have already said, very
old, and only one wing is now inhabited. The bedrooms in this wing are
on the ground floor, the sitting-rooms being in the central block of
the buildings. Of these bedrooms the first is Dr. Roylott’s, the second
my sister’s, and the third my own. There is no communication between
them, but they all open out into the same corridor. Do I make myself
plain?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The windows of the three rooms open out upon the lawn. That fatal
night Dr. Roylott had gone to his room early, though we knew that he
had not retired to rest, for my sister was troubled by the smell of the
strong Indian cigars which it was his custom to smoke. She left her
room, therefore, and came into mine, where she sat for some time,
chatting about her approaching wedding. At eleven o’clock she rose to
leave me, but she paused at the door and looked back. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Because during the last few nights I have always, about three in the
morning, heard a low, clear whistle. I am a light sleeper, and it has
awakened me. I cannot tell where it came from—perhaps from the next
room, perhaps from the lawn. I thought that I would just ask you
whether you had heard it.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Well, it is of no great consequence, at any rate.’ She smiled back at
me, closed my door, and a few moments later I heard her key turn in the
lock.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I think that I mentioned to you that the Doctor kept a cheetah and a
baboon. We had no feeling of security unless our doors were locked.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I could not sleep that night. A vague feeling of impending misfortune
impressed me. My sister and I, you will recollect, were twins, and you
know how subtle are the links which bind two souls which are so closely
allied. It was a wild night. The wind was howling outside, and the rain
was beating and splashing against the windows. Suddenly, amid all the
hubbub of the gale, there burst forth the wild scream of a terrified
woman. I knew that it was my sister’s voice. I sprang from my bed,
wrapped a shawl round me, and rushed into the corridor. As I opened my
door I seemed to hear a low whistle, such as my sister described, and a
few moments later a clanging sound, as if a mass of metal had fallen.
As I ran down the passage, my sister’s door was unlocked, and revolved
slowly upon its hinges. I stared at it horror-stricken, not knowing
what was about to issue from it. By the light of the corridor-lamp I
saw my sister appear at the opening, her face blanched with terror, her
hands groping for help, her whole figure swaying to and fro like that
of a drunkard. I ran to her and threw my arms round her, but at that
moment her knees seemed to give way and she fell to the ground. She
writhed as one who is in terrible pain, and her limbs were dreadfully
convulsed. At first I thought that she had not recognised me, but as I
bent over her she suddenly shrieked out in a voice which I shall never
forget, ‘Oh, my God! Helen! It was the band! The speckled band!’ There
was something else which she would fain have said, and she stabbed with
her finger into the air in the direction of the Doctor’s room, but a
fresh convulsion seized her and choked her words. I rushed out, calling
loudly for my stepfather, and I met him hastening from his room in his
dressing-gown. When he reached my sister’s side she was unconscious,
and though he poured brandy down her throat and sent for medical aid
from the village, all efforts were in vain, for she slowly sank and
died without having recovered her consciousness. Such was the dreadful
end of my beloved sister.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That was what the county coroner asked me at the inquiry. It is my
strong impression that I heard it, and yet, among the crash of the gale
and the creaking of an old house, I may possibly have been deceived.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No, she was in her night-dress. In her right hand was found the
charred stump of a match, and in her left a match-box.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Showing that she had struck a light and looked about her when the
alarm took place. That is important. And what conclusions did the
coroner come to?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He investigated the case with great care, for Dr. Roylott’s conduct
had long been notorious in the county, but he was unable to find any
satisfactory cause of death. My evidence showed that the door had been
fastened upon the inner side, and the windows were blocked by
old-fashioned shutters with broad iron bars, which were secured every
night. The walls were carefully sounded, and were shown to be quite
solid all round, and the flooring was also thoroughly examined, with
the same result. The chimney is wide, but is barred up by four large
staples. It is certain, therefore, that my sister was quite alone when
she met her end. Besides, there were no marks of any violence upon
her.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is my belief that she died of pure fear and nervous shock, though
what it was that frightened her I cannot imagine.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Sometimes I have thought that it was merely the wild talk of delirium,
sometimes that it may have referred to some band of people, perhaps to
these very gipsies in the plantation. I do not know whether the spotted
handkerchiefs which so many of them wear over their heads might have
suggested the strange adjective which she used.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Two years have passed since then, and my life has been until lately
lonelier than ever. A month ago, however, a dear friend, whom I have
known for many years, has done me the honour to ask my hand in
marriage. His name is Armitage—Percy Armitage—the second son of Mr.
Armitage, of Crane Water, near Reading. My stepfather has offered no
opposition to the match, and we are to be married in the course of the
spring. Two days ago some repairs were started in the west wing of the
building, and my bedroom wall has been pierced, so that I have had to
move into the chamber in which my sister died, and to sleep in the very
bed in which she slept. Imagine, then, my thrill of terror when last
night, as I lay awake, thinking over her terrible fate, I suddenly
heard in the silence of the night the low whistle which had been the
herald of her own death. I sprang up and lit the lamp, but nothing was
to be seen in the room. I was too shaken to go to bed again, however,
so I dressed, and as soon as it was daylight I slipped down, got a
dog-cart at the Crown Inn, which is opposite, and drove to Leatherhead,
from whence I have come on this morning with the one object of seeing
you and asking your advice.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> For answer Holmes pushed back the frill of black lace which fringed the
hand that lay upon our visitor’s knee. Five little livid spots, the
marks of four fingers and a thumb, were printed upon the white wrist. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The lady coloured deeply and covered over her injured wrist. “He is a
hard man,” she said, “and perhaps he hardly knows his own strength.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This is a very deep business,” he said at last. “There are a thousand
details which I should desire to know before I decide upon our course
of action. Yet we have not a moment to lose. If we were to come to
Stoke Moran to-day, would it be possible for us to see over these rooms
without the knowledge of your stepfather?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “As it happens, he spoke of coming into town to-day upon some most
important business. It is probable that he will be away all day, and
that there would be nothing to disturb you. We have a housekeeper now,
but she is old and foolish, and I could easily get her out of the way.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have one or two things which I would wish to do now that I am in
town. But I shall return by the twelve o’clock train, so as to be there
in time for your coming.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And you may expect us early in the afternoon. I have myself some small
business matters to attend to. Will you not wait and breakfast?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No, I must go. My heart is lightened already since I have confided my
trouble to you. I shall look forward to seeing you again this
afternoon.” She dropped her thick black veil over her face and glided
from the room. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yet if the lady is correct in saying that the flooring and walls are
sound, and that the door, window, and chimney are impassable, then her
sister must have been undoubtedly alone when she met her mysterious
end.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “When you combine the ideas of whistles at night, the presence of a
band of gipsies who are on intimate terms with this old doctor, the
fact that we have every reason to believe that the doctor has an
interest in preventing his stepdaughter’s marriage, the dying allusion
to a band, and, finally, the fact that Miss Helen Stoner heard a
metallic clang, which might have been caused by one of those metal bars
that secured the shutters falling back into its place, I think that
there is good ground to think that the mystery may be cleared along
those lines.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And so do I. It is precisely for that reason that we are going to
Stoke Moran this day. I want to see whether the objections are fatal,
or if they may be explained away. But what in the name of the devil!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The ejaculation had been drawn from my companion by the fact that our
door had been suddenly dashed open, and that a huge man had framed
himself in the aperture. His costume was a peculiar mixture of the
professional and of the agricultural, having a black top-hat, a long
frock-coat, and a pair of high gaiters, with a hunting-crop swinging in
his hand. So tall was he that his hat actually brushed the cross bar of
the doorway, and his breadth seemed to span it across from side to
side. A large face, seared with a thousand wrinkles, burned yellow with
the sun, and marked with every evil passion, was turned from one to the
other of us, while his deep-set, bile-shot eyes, and his high, thin,
fleshless nose, gave him somewhat the resemblance to a fierce old bird
of prey. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I will do nothing of the kind. My stepdaughter has been here. I have
traced her. What has she been saying to you?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Ha! You put me off, do you?” said our new visitor, taking a step
forward and shaking his hunting-crop. “I know you, you scoundrel! I
have heard of you before. You are Holmes, the meddler.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Holmes chuckled heartily. “Your conversation is most entertaining,”
said he. “When you go out close the door, for there is a decided
draught.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I will go when I have had my say. Don’t you dare to meddle with my
affairs. I know that Miss Stoner has been here. I traced her! I am a
dangerous man to fall foul of! See here.” He stepped swiftly forward,
seized the poker, and bent it into a curve with his huge brown hands. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “See that you keep yourself out of my grip,” he snarled, and hurling
the twisted poker into the fireplace he strode out of the room. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He seems a very amiable person,” said Holmes, laughing. “I am not
quite so bulky, but if he had remained I might have shown him that my
grip was not much more feeble than his own.” As he spoke he picked up
the steel poker and, with a sudden effort, straightened it out again. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Fancy his having the insolence to confound me with the official
detective force! This incident gives zest to our investigation,
however, and I only trust that our little friend will not suffer from
her imprudence in allowing this brute to trace her. And now, Watson, we
shall order breakfast, and afterwards I shall walk down to Doctors’
Commons, where I hope to get some data which may help us in this
matter.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was nearly one o’clock when Sherlock Holmes returned from his
excursion. He held in his hand a sheet of blue paper, scrawled over
with notes and figures. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have seen the will of the deceased wife,” said he. “To determine its
exact meaning I have been obliged to work out the present prices of the
investments with which it is concerned. The total income, which at the
time of the wife’s death was little short of £ 1,100, is now, through
the fall in agricultural prices, not more than £ 750. Each daughter can
claim an income of £ 250, in case of marriage. It is evident,
therefore, that if both girls had married, this beauty would have had a
mere pittance, while even one of them would cripple him to a very
serious extent. My morning’s work has not been wasted, since it has
proved that he has the very strongest motives for standing in the way
of anything of the sort. And now, Watson, this is too serious for
dawdling, especially as the old man is aware that we are interesting
ourselves in his affairs; so if you are ready, we shall call a cab and
drive to Waterloo. I should be very much obliged if you would slip your
revolver into your pocket. An Eley’s No. 2 is an excellent argument
with gentlemen who can twist steel pokers into knots. That and a
tooth-brush are, I think, all that we need.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> At Waterloo we were fortunate in catching a train for Leatherhead,
where we hired a trap at the station inn and drove for four or five
miles through the lovely Surrey lanes. It was a perfect day, with a
bright sun and a few fleecy clouds in the heavens. The trees and
wayside hedges were just throwing out their first green shoots, and the
air was full of the pleasant smell of the moist earth. To me at least
there was a strange contrast between the sweet promise of the spring
and this sinister quest upon which we were engaged. My companion sat in
the front of the trap, his arms folded, his hat pulled down over his
eyes, and his chin sunk upon his breast, buried in the deepest thought.
Suddenly, however, he started, tapped me on the shoulder, and pointed
over the meadows. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> A heavily timbered park stretched up in a gentle slope, thickening into
a grove at the highest point. From amid the branches there jutted out
the grey gables and high roof-tree of a very old mansion. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “There’s the village,” said the driver, pointing to a cluster of roofs
some distance to the left; “but if you want to get to the house, you’ll
find it shorter to get over this stile, and so by the footpath over the
fields. There it is, where the lady is walking.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And the lady, I fancy, is Miss Stoner,” observed Holmes, shading his
eyes. “Yes, I think we had better do as you suggest.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I thought it as well,” said Holmes as we climbed the stile, “that this
fellow should think we had come here as architects, or on some definite
business. It may stop his gossip. Good-afternoon, Miss Stoner. You see
that we have been as good as our word.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Our client of the morning had hurried forward to meet us with a face
which spoke her joy. “I have been waiting so eagerly for you,” she
cried, shaking hands with us warmly. “All has turned out splendidly.
Dr. Roylott has gone to town, and it is unlikely that he will be back
before evening.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “We have had the pleasure of making the Doctor’s acquaintance,” said
Holmes, and in a few words he sketched out what had occurred. Miss
Stoner turned white to the lips as she listened. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He is so cunning that I never know when I am safe from him. What will
he say when he returns?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He must guard himself, for he may find that there is someone more
cunning than himself upon his track. You must lock yourself up from him
to-night. If he is violent, we shall take you away to your aunt’s at
Harrow. Now, we must make the best use of our time, so kindly take us
at once to the rooms which we are to examine.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The building was of grey, lichen-blotched stone, with a high central
portion and two curving wings, like the claws of a crab, thrown out on
each side. In one of these wings the windows were broken and blocked
with wooden boards, while the roof was partly caved in, a picture of
ruin. The central portion was in little better repair, but the
right-hand block was comparatively modern, and the blinds in the
windows, with the blue smoke curling up from the chimneys, showed that
this was where the family resided. Some scaffolding had been erected
against the end wall, and the stone-work had been broken into, but
there were no signs of any workmen at the moment of our visit. Holmes
walked slowly up and down the ill-trimmed lawn and examined with deep
attention the outsides of the windows. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This, I take it, belongs to the room in which you used to sleep, the
centre one to your sister’s, and the one next to the main building to
Dr. Roylott’s chamber?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Pending the alterations, as I understand. By the way, there does not
seem to be any very pressing need for repairs at that end wall.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Ah! that is suggestive. Now, on the other side of this narrow wing
runs the corridor from which these three rooms open. There are windows
in it, of course?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “As you both locked your doors at night, your rooms were unapproachable
from that side. Now, would you have the kindness to go into your room
and bar your shutters?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Miss Stoner did so, and Holmes, after a careful examination through the
open window, endeavoured in every way to force the shutter open, but
without success. There was no slit through which a knife could be
passed to raise the bar. Then with his lens he tested the hinges, but
they were of solid iron, built firmly into the massive masonry. “Hum!”
said he, scratching his chin in some perplexity, “my theory certainly
presents some difficulties. No one could pass these shutters if they
were bolted. Well, we shall see if the inside throws any light upon the
matter.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> A small side door led into the whitewashed corridor from which the
three bedrooms opened. Holmes refused to examine the third chamber, so
we passed at once to the second, that in which Miss Stoner was now
sleeping, and in which her sister had met with her fate. It was a
homely little room, with a low ceiling and a gaping fireplace, after
the fashion of old country-houses. A brown chest of drawers stood in
one corner, a narrow white-counterpaned bed in another, and a
dressing-table on the left-hand side of the window. These articles,
with two small wicker-work chairs, made up all the furniture in the
room save for a square of Wilton carpet in the centre. The boards round
and the panelling of the walls were of brown, worm-eaten oak, so old
and discoloured that it may have dated from the original building of
the house. Holmes drew one of the chairs into a corner and sat silent,
while his eyes travelled round and round and up and down, taking in
every detail of the apartment. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Where does that bell communicate with?” he asked at last pointing to a
thick bell-rope which hung down beside the bed, the tassel actually
lying upon the pillow. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Indeed, it seemed unnecessary to put so nice a bell-pull there. You
will excuse me for a few minutes while I satisfy myself as to this
floor.” He threw himself down upon his face with his lens in his hand
and crawled swiftly backward and forward, examining minutely the cracks
between the boards. Then he did the same with the wood-work with which
the chamber was panelled. Finally he walked over to the bed and spent
some time in staring at it and in running his eye up and down the wall.
Finally he took the bell-rope in his hand and gave it a brisk tug. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No, it is not even attached to a wire. This is very interesting. You
can see now that it is fastened to a hook just above where the little
opening for the ventilator is.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Very strange!” muttered Holmes, pulling at the rope. “There are one or
two very singular points about this room. For example, what a fool a
builder must be to open a ventilator into another room, when, with the
same trouble, he might have communicated with the outside air!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “They seem to have been of a most interesting character—dummy
bell-ropes, and ventilators which do not ventilate. With your
permission, Miss Stoner, we shall now carry our researches into the
inner apartment.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Dr. Grimesby Roylott’s chamber was larger than that of his
step-daughter, but was as plainly furnished. A camp-bed, a small wooden
shelf full of books, mostly of a technical character, an armchair
beside the bed, a plain wooden chair against the wall, a round table,
and a large iron safe were the principal things which met the eye.
Holmes walked slowly round and examined each and all of them with the
keenest interest. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Ah, yes, of course! Well, a cheetah is just a big cat, and yet a
saucer of milk does not go very far in satisfying its wants, I daresay.
There is one point which I should wish to determine.” He squatted down
in front of the wooden chair and examined the seat of it with the
greatest attention. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Thank you. That is quite settled,” said he, rising and putting his
lens in his pocket. “Hullo! Here is something interesting!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The object which had caught his eye was a small dog lash hung on one
corner of the bed. The lash, however, was curled upon itself and tied
so as to make a loop of whipcord. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That is not quite so common, is it? Ah, me! it’s a wicked world, and
when a clever man turns his brains to crime it is the worst of all. I
think that I have seen enough now, Miss Stoner, and with your
permission we shall walk out upon the lawn.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I had never seen my friend’s face so grim or his brow so dark as it was
when we turned from the scene of this investigation. We had walked
several times up and down the lawn, neither Miss Stoner nor myself
liking to break in upon his thoughts before he roused himself from his
reverie. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You must confine yourself to your room, on pretence of a headache,
when your stepfather comes back. Then when you hear him retire for the
night, you must open the shutters of your window, undo the hasp, put
your lamp there as a signal to us, and then withdraw quietly with
everything which you are likely to want into the room which you used to
occupy. I have no doubt that, in spite of the repairs, you could manage
there for one night.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “We shall spend the night in your room, and we shall investigate the
cause of this noise which has disturbed you.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I believe, Mr. Holmes, that you have already made up your mind,” said
Miss Stoner, laying her hand upon my companion’s sleeve. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No, I do not think so. I think that there was probably some more
tangible cause. And now, Miss Stoner, we must leave you for if Dr.
Roylott returned and saw us our journey would be in vain. Good-bye, and
be brave, for if you will do what I have told you, you may rest assured
that we shall soon drive away the dangers that threaten you.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Sherlock Holmes and I had no difficulty in engaging a bedroom and
sitting-room at the Crown Inn. They were on the upper floor, and from
our window we could command a view of the avenue gate, and of the
inhabited wing of Stoke Moran Manor House. At dusk we saw Dr. Grimesby
Roylott drive past, his huge form looming up beside the little figure
of the lad who drove him. The boy had some slight difficulty in undoing
the heavy iron gates, and we heard the hoarse roar of the Doctor’s
voice and saw the fury with which he shook his clinched fists at him.
The trap drove on, and a few minutes later we saw a sudden light spring
up among the trees as the lamp was lit in one of the sitting-rooms. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Do you know, Watson,” said Holmes as we sat together in the gathering
darkness, “I have really some scruples as to taking you to-night. There
is a distinct element of danger.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No, but I fancy that I may have deduced a little more. I imagine that
you saw all that I did.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I saw nothing remarkable save the bell-rope, and what purpose that
could answer I confess is more than I can imagine.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, but I do not think that it is such a very unusual thing to have a
small opening between two rooms. It was so small that a rat could
hardly pass through.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, yes, I did. You remember in her statement she said that her sister
could smell Dr. Roylott’s cigar. Now, of course that suggested at once
that there must be a communication between the two rooms. It could only
be a small one, or it would have been remarked upon at the coroner’s
inquiry. I deduced a ventilator.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, there is at least a curious coincidence of dates. A ventilator
is made, a cord is hung, and a lady who sleeps in the bed dies. Does
not that strike you?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The lady could not move her bed. It must always be in the same
relative position to the ventilator and to the rope—or so we may call
it, since it was clearly never meant for a bell-pull.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Holmes,” I cried, “I seem to see dimly what you are hinting at. We are
only just in time to prevent some subtle and horrible crime.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Subtle enough and horrible enough. When a doctor does go wrong he is
the first of criminals. He has nerve and he has knowledge. Palmer and
Pritchard were among the heads of their profession. This man strikes
even deeper, but I think, Watson, that we shall be able to strike
deeper still. But we shall have horrors enough before the night is
over; for goodness’ sake let us have a quiet pipe and turn our minds
for a few hours to something more cheerful.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> About nine o’clock the light among the trees was extinguished, and all
was dark in the direction of the Manor House. Two hours passed slowly
away, and then, suddenly, just at the stroke of eleven, a single bright
light shone out right in front of us. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As we passed out he exchanged a few words with the landlord, explaining
that we were going on a late visit to an acquaintance, and that it was
possible that we might spend the night there. A moment later we were
out on the dark road, a chill wind blowing in our faces, and one yellow
light twinkling in front of us through the gloom to guide us on our
sombre errand. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> There was little difficulty in entering the grounds, for unrepaired
breaches gaped in the old park wall. Making our way among the trees, we
reached the lawn, crossed it, and were about to enter through the
window when out from a clump of laurel bushes there darted what seemed
to be a hideous and distorted child, who threw itself upon the grass
with writhing limbs and then ran swiftly across the lawn into the
darkness. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Holmes was for the moment as startled as I. His hand closed like a vice
upon my wrist in his agitation. Then he broke into a low laugh and put
his lips to my ear. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I had forgotten the strange pets which the Doctor affected. There was a
cheetah, too; perhaps we might find it upon our shoulders at any
moment. I confess that I felt easier in my mind when, after following
Holmes’ example and slipping off my shoes, I found myself inside the
bedroom. My companion noiselessly closed the shutters, moved the lamp
onto the table, and cast his eyes round the room. All was as we had
seen it in the daytime. Then creeping up to me and making a trumpet of
his hand, he whispered into my ear again so gently that it was all that
I could do to distinguish the words: </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Do not go asleep; your very life may depend upon it. Have your pistol
ready in case we should need it. I will sit on the side of the bed, and
you in that chair.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Holmes had brought up a long thin cane, and this he placed upon the bed
beside him. By it he laid the box of matches and the stump of a candle.
Then he turned down the lamp, and we were left in darkness. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> How shall I ever forget that dreadful vigil? I could not hear a sound,
not even the drawing of a breath, and yet I knew that my companion sat
open-eyed, within a few feet of me, in the same state of nervous
tension in which I was myself. The shutters cut off the least ray of
light, and we waited in absolute darkness. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> From outside came the occasional cry of a night-bird, and once at our
very window a long drawn catlike whine, which told us that the cheetah
was indeed at liberty. Far away we could hear the deep tones of the
parish clock, which boomed out every quarter of an hour. How long they
seemed, those quarters! Twelve struck, and one and two and three, and
still we sat waiting silently for whatever might befall. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Suddenly there was the momentary gleam of a light up in the direction
of the ventilator, which vanished immediately, but was succeeded by a
strong smell of burning oil and heated metal. Someone in the next room
had lit a dark-lantern. I heard a gentle sound of movement, and then
all was silent once more, though the smell grew stronger. For half an
hour I sat with straining ears. Then suddenly another sound became
audible—a very gentle, soothing sound, like that of a small jet of
steam escaping continually from a kettle. The instant that we heard it,
Holmes sprang from the bed, struck a match, and lashed furiously with
his cane at the bell-pull. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But I saw nothing. At the moment when Holmes struck the light I heard a
low, clear whistle, but the sudden glare flashing into my weary eyes
made it impossible for me to tell what it was at which my friend lashed
so savagely. I could, however, see that his face was deadly pale and
filled with horror and loathing. He had ceased to strike and was gazing
up at the ventilator when suddenly there broke from the silence of the
night the most horrible cry to which I have ever listened. It swelled
up louder and louder, a hoarse yell of pain and fear and anger all
mingled in the one dreadful shriek. They say that away down in the
village, and even in the distant parsonage, that cry raised the
sleepers from their beds. It struck cold to our hearts, and I stood
gazing at Holmes, and he at me, until the last echoes of it had died
away into the silence from which it rose. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It means that it is all over,” Holmes answered. “And perhaps, after
all, it is for the best. Take your pistol, and we will enter Dr.
Roylott’s room.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> With a grave face he lit the lamp and led the way down the corridor.
Twice he struck at the chamber door without any reply from within. Then
he turned the handle and entered, I at his heels, with the cocked
pistol in my hand. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was a singular sight which met our eyes. On the table stood a
dark-lantern with the shutter half open, throwing a brilliant beam of
light upon the iron safe, the door of which was ajar. Beside this
table, on the wooden chair, sat Dr. Grimesby Roylott clad in a long
grey dressing-gown, his bare ankles protruding beneath, and his feet
thrust into red heelless Turkish slippers. Across his lap lay the short
stock with the long lash which we had noticed during the day. His chin
was cocked upward and his eyes were fixed in a dreadful, rigid stare at
the corner of the ceiling. Round his brow he had a peculiar yellow
band, with brownish speckles, which seemed to be bound tightly round
his head. As we entered he made neither sound nor motion. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I took a step forward. In an instant his strange headgear began to
move, and there reared itself from among his hair the squat
diamond-shaped head and puffed neck of a loathsome serpent. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is a swamp adder!” cried Holmes; “the deadliest snake in India. He
has died within ten seconds of being bitten. Violence does, in truth,
recoil upon the violent, and the schemer falls into the pit which he
digs for another. Let us thrust this creature back into its den, and we
can then remove Miss Stoner to some place of shelter and let the county
police know what has happened.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As he spoke he drew the dog-whip swiftly from the dead man’s lap, and
throwing the noose round the reptile’s neck he drew it from its horrid
perch and, carrying it at arm’s length, threw it into the iron safe,
which he closed upon it. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Such are the true facts of the death of Dr. Grimesby Roylott, of Stoke
Moran. It is not necessary that I should prolong a narrative which has
already run to too great a length by telling how we broke the sad news
to the terrified girl, how we conveyed her by the morning train to the
care of her good aunt at Harrow, of how the slow process of official
inquiry came to the conclusion that the doctor met his fate while
indiscreetly playing with a dangerous pet. The little which I had yet
to learn of the case was told me by Sherlock Holmes as we travelled
back next day. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I had,” said he, “come to an entirely erroneous conclusion which
shows, my dear Watson, how dangerous it always is to reason from
insufficient data. The presence of the gipsies, and the use of the word
‘band,’ which was used by the poor girl, no doubt, to explain the
appearance which she had caught a hurried glimpse of by the light of
her match, were sufficient to put me upon an entirely wrong scent. I
can only claim the merit that I instantly reconsidered my position
when, however, it became clear to me that whatever danger threatened an
occupant of the room could not come either from the window or the door.
My attention was speedily drawn, as I have already remarked to you, to
this ventilator, and to the bell-rope which hung down to the bed. The
discovery that this was a dummy, and that the bed was clamped to the
floor, instantly gave rise to the suspicion that the rope was there as
a bridge for something passing through the hole and coming to the bed.
The idea of a snake instantly occurred to me, and when I coupled it
with my knowledge that the doctor was furnished with a supply of
creatures from India, I felt that I was probably on the right track.
The idea of using a form of poison which could not possibly be
discovered by any chemical test was just such a one as would occur to a
clever and ruthless man who had had an Eastern training. The rapidity
with which such a poison would take effect would also, from his point
of view, be an advantage. It would be a sharp-eyed coroner, indeed, who
could distinguish the two little dark punctures which would show where
the poison fangs had done their work. Then I thought of the whistle. Of
course he must recall the snake before the morning light revealed it to
the victim. He had trained it, probably by the use of the milk which we
saw, to return to him when summoned. He would put it through this
ventilator at the hour that he thought best, with the certainty that it
would crawl down the rope and land on the bed. It might or might not
bite the occupant, perhaps she might escape every night for a week, but
sooner or later she must fall a victim. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I had come to these conclusions before ever I had entered his room. An
inspection of his chair showed me that he had been in the habit of
standing on it, which of course would be necessary in order that he
should reach the ventilator. The sight of the safe, the saucer of milk,
and the loop of whipcord were enough to finally dispel any doubts which
may have remained. The metallic clang heard by Miss Stoner was
obviously caused by her stepfather hastily closing the door of his safe
upon its terrible occupant. Having once made up my mind, you know the
steps which I took in order to put the matter to the proof. I heard the
creature hiss as I have no doubt that you did also, and I instantly lit
the light and attacked it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And also with the result of causing it to turn upon its master at the
other side. Some of the blows of my cane came home and roused its
snakish temper, so that it flew upon the first person it saw. In this
way I am no doubt indirectly responsible for Dr. Grimesby Roylott’s
death, and I cannot say that it is likely to weigh very heavily upon my
conscience.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Of all the problems which have been submitted to my friend, Mr.
Sherlock Holmes, for solution during the years of our intimacy, there
were only two which I was the means of introducing to his notice—that
of Mr. Hatherley’s thumb, and that of Colonel Warburton’s madness. Of
these the latter may have afforded a finer field for an acute and
original observer, but the other was so strange in its inception and so
dramatic in its details that it may be the more worthy of being placed
upon record, even if it gave my friend fewer openings for those
deductive methods of reasoning by which he achieved such remarkable
results. The story has, I believe, been told more than once in the
newspapers, but, like all such narratives, its effect is much less
striking when set forth _en bloc_ in a single half-column of print than
when the facts slowly evolve before your own eyes, and the mystery
clears gradually away as each new discovery furnishes a step which
leads on to the complete truth. At the time the circumstances made a
deep impression upon me, and the lapse of two years has hardly served
to weaken the effect. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was in the summer of ’89, not long after my marriage, that the
events occurred which I am now about to summarise. I had returned to
civil practice and had finally abandoned Holmes in his Baker Street
rooms, although I continually visited him and occasionally even
persuaded him to forgo his Bohemian habits so far as to come and visit
us. My practice had steadily increased, and as I happened to live at no
very great distance from Paddington Station, I got a few patients from
among the officials. One of these, whom I had cured of a painful and
lingering disease, was never weary of advertising my virtues and of
endeavouring to send me on every sufferer over whom he might have any
influence. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> One morning, at a little before seven o’clock, I was awakened by the
maid tapping at the door to announce that two men had come from
Paddington and were waiting in the consulting-room. I dressed
hurriedly, for I knew by experience that railway cases were seldom
trivial, and hastened downstairs. As I descended, my old ally, the
guard, came out of the room and closed the door tightly behind him. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “What is it, then?” I asked, for his manner suggested that it was some
strange creature which he had caged up in my room. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It’s a new patient,” he whispered. “I thought I’d bring him round
myself; then he couldn’t slip away. There he is, all safe and sound. I
must go now, Doctor; I have my dooties, just the same as you.” And off
he went, this trusty tout, without even giving me time to thank him. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I entered my consulting-room and found a gentleman seated by the table.
He was quietly dressed in a suit of heather tweed with a soft cloth cap
which he had laid down upon my books. Round one of his hands he had a
handkerchief wrapped, which was mottled all over with bloodstains. He
was young, not more than five-and-twenty, I should say, with a strong,
masculine face; but he was exceedingly pale and gave me the impression
of a man who was suffering from some strong agitation, which it took
all his strength of mind to control. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am sorry to knock you up so early, Doctor,” said he, “but I have had
a very serious accident during the night. I came in by train this
morning, and on inquiring at Paddington as to where I might find a
doctor, a worthy fellow very kindly escorted me here. I gave the maid a
card, but I see that she has left it upon the side-table.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I took it up and glanced at it. “Mr. Victor Hatherley, hydraulic
engineer, 16A, Victoria Street (3rd floor).” That was the name, style,
and abode of my morning visitor. “I regret that I have kept you
waiting,” said I, sitting down in my library-chair. “You are fresh from
a night journey, I understand, which is in itself a monotonous
occupation.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, my night could not be called monotonous,” said he, and laughed. He
laughed very heartily, with a high, ringing note, leaning back in his
chair and shaking his sides. All my medical instincts rose up against
that laugh. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was useless, however. He was off in one of those hysterical
outbursts which come upon a strong nature when some great crisis is
over and gone. Presently he came to himself once more, very weary and
pale-looking. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Not at all. Drink this.” I dashed some brandy into the water, and the
colour began to come back to his bloodless cheeks. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That’s better!” said he. “And now, Doctor, perhaps you would kindly
attend to my thumb, or rather to the place where my thumb used to be.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He unwound the handkerchief and held out his hand. It gave even my
hardened nerves a shudder to look at it. There were four protruding
fingers and a horrid red, spongy surface where the thumb should have
been. It had been hacked or torn right out from the roots. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, it did. I fainted when it was done, and I think that I must have
been senseless for a long time. When I came to I found that it was
still bleeding, so I tied one end of my handkerchief very tightly round
the wrist and braced it up with a twig.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I sponged the wound, cleaned it, dressed it, and finally covered it
over with cotton wadding and carbolised bandages. He lay back without
wincing, though he bit his lip from time to time. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Capital! Between your brandy and your bandage, I feel a new man. I was
very weak, but I have had a good deal to go through.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, no, not now. I shall have to tell my tale to the police; but,
between ourselves, if it were not for the convincing evidence of this
wound of mine, I should be surprised if they believed my statement, for
it is a very extraordinary one, and I have not much in the way of proof
with which to back it up; and, even if they believe me, the clues which
I can give them are so vague that it is a question whether justice will
be done.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Ha!” cried I, “if it is anything in the nature of a problem which you
desire to see solved, I should strongly recommend you to come to my
friend, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, before you go to the official police.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, I have heard of that fellow,” answered my visitor, “and I should
be very glad if he would take the matter up, though of course I must
use the official police as well. Would you give me an introduction to
him?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “We’ll call a cab and go together. We shall just be in time to have a
little breakfast with him. Do you feel equal to it?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Then my servant will call a cab, and I shall be with you in an
instant.” I rushed upstairs, explained the matter shortly to my wife,
and in five minutes was inside a hansom, driving with my new
acquaintance to Baker Street. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Sherlock Holmes was, as I expected, lounging about his sitting-room in
his dressing-gown, reading the agony column of _The Times_ and smoking
his before-breakfast pipe, which was composed of all the plugs and
dottles left from his smokes of the day before, all carefully dried and
collected on the corner of the mantelpiece. He received us in his
quietly genial fashion, ordered fresh rashers and eggs, and joined us
in a hearty meal. When it was concluded he settled our new acquaintance
upon the sofa, placed a pillow beneath his head, and laid a glass of
brandy and water within his reach. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is easy to see that your experience has been no common one, Mr.
Hatherley,” said he. “Pray, lie down there and make yourself absolutely
at home. Tell us what you can, but stop when you are tired and keep up
your strength with a little stimulant.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Thank you,” said my patient, “but I have felt another man since the
doctor bandaged me, and I think that your breakfast has completed the
cure. I shall take up as little of your valuable time as possible, so I
shall start at once upon my peculiar experiences.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Holmes sat in his big armchair with the weary, heavy-lidded expression
which veiled his keen and eager nature, while I sat opposite to him,
and we listened in silence to the strange story which our visitor
detailed to us. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You must know,” said he, “that I am an orphan and a bachelor, residing
alone in lodgings in London. By profession I am a hydraulic engineer,
and I have had considerable experience of my work during the seven
years that I was apprenticed to Venner & Matheson, the well-known firm,
of Greenwich. Two years ago, having served my time, and having also
come into a fair sum of money through my poor father’s death, I
determined to start in business for myself and took professional
chambers in Victoria Street. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I suppose that everyone finds his first independent start in business
a dreary experience. To me it has been exceptionally so. During two
years I have had three consultations and one small job, and that is
absolutely all that my profession has brought me. My gross takings
amount to £ 27 10_s_. Every day, from nine in the morning until four in
the afternoon, I waited in my little den, until at last my heart began
to sink, and I came to believe that I should never have any practice at
all. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yesterday, however, just as I was thinking of leaving the office, my
clerk entered to say there was a gentleman waiting who wished to see me
upon business. He brought up a card, too, with the name of ‘Colonel
Lysander Stark’ engraved upon it. Close at his heels came the colonel
himself, a man rather over the middle size, but of an exceeding
thinness. I do not think that I have ever seen so thin a man. His whole
face sharpened away into nose and chin, and the skin of his cheeks was
drawn quite tense over his outstanding bones. Yet this emaciation
seemed to be his natural habit, and due to no disease, for his eye was
bright, his step brisk, and his bearing assured. He was plainly but
neatly dressed, and his age, I should judge, would be nearer forty than
thirty. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Mr. Hatherley?’ said he, with something of a German accent. ‘You have
been recommended to me, Mr. Hatherley, as being a man who is not only
proficient in his profession but is also discreet and capable of
preserving a secret.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I bowed, feeling as flattered as any young man would at such an
address. ‘May I ask who it was who gave me so good a character?’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Well, perhaps it is better that I should not tell you that just at
this moment. I have it from the same source that you are both an orphan
and a bachelor and are residing alone in London.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘That is quite correct,’ I answered; ‘but you will excuse me if I say
that I cannot see how all this bears upon my professional
qualifications. I understand that it was on a professional matter that
you wished to speak to me?’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Undoubtedly so. But you will find that all I say is really to the
point. I have a professional commission for you, but absolute secrecy
is quite essential—absolute secrecy, you understand, and of course we
may expect that more from a man who is alone than from one who lives in
the bosom of his family.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He looked very hard at me as I spoke, and it seemed to me that I had
never seen so suspicious and questioning an eye. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Very good.’ He suddenly sprang up, and darting like lightning across
the room he flung open the door. The passage outside was empty. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘That’s all right,’ said he, coming back. ‘I know that clerks are
sometimes curious as to their master’s affairs. Now we can talk in
safety.’ He drew up his chair very close to mine and began to stare at
me again with the same questioning and thoughtful look. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “A feeling of repulsion, and of something akin to fear had begun to
rise within me at the strange antics of this fleshless man. Even my
dread of losing a client could not restrain me from showing my
impatience. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘I beg that you will state your business, sir,’ said I; ‘my time is of
value.’ Heaven forgive me for that last sentence, but the words came to
my lips. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘I say a night’s work, but an hour’s would be nearer the mark. I
simply want your opinion about a hydraulic stamping machine which has
got out of gear. If you show us what is wrong we shall soon set it
right ourselves. What do you think of such a commission as that?’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘To Eyford, in Berkshire. It is a little place near the borders of
Oxfordshire, and within seven miles of Reading. There is a train from
Paddington which would bring you there at about 11:15.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Then we can hardly get there before midnight. I suppose there would
be no chance of a train back. I should be compelled to stop the night.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘We have judged it best that you should come late. It is to recompense
you for any inconvenience that we are paying to you, a young and
unknown man, a fee which would buy an opinion from the very heads of
your profession. Still, of course, if you would like to draw out of the
business, there is plenty of time to do so.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I thought of the fifty guineas, and of how very useful they would be
to me. ‘Not at all,’ said I, ‘I shall be very happy to accommodate
myself to your wishes. I should like, however, to understand a little
more clearly what it is that you wish me to do.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Quite so. It is very natural that the pledge of secrecy which we have
exacted from you should have aroused your curiosity. I have no wish to
commit you to anything without your having it all laid before you. I
suppose that we are absolutely safe from eavesdroppers?’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Then the matter stands thus. You are probably aware that
fuller’s-earth is a valuable product, and that it is only found in one
or two places in England?’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Some little time ago I bought a small place—a very small place—within
ten miles of Reading. I was fortunate enough to discover that there was
a deposit of fuller’s-earth in one of my fields. On examining it,
however, I found that this deposit was a comparatively small one, and
that it formed a link between two very much larger ones upon the right
and left—both of them, however, in the grounds of my neighbours. These
good people were absolutely ignorant that their land contained that
which was quite as valuable as a gold-mine. Naturally, it was to my
interest to buy their land before they discovered its true value, but
unfortunately I had no capital by which I could do this. I took a few
of my friends into the secret, however, and they suggested that we
should quietly and secretly work our own little deposit and that in
this way we should earn the money which would enable us to buy the
neighbouring fields. This we have now been doing for some time, and in
order to help us in our operations we erected a hydraulic press. This
press, as I have already explained, has got out of order, and we wish
your advice upon the subject. We guard our secret very jealously,
however, and if it once became known that we had hydraulic engineers
coming to our little house, it would soon rouse inquiry, and then, if
the facts came out, it would be good-bye to any chance of getting these
fields and carrying out our plans. That is why I have made you promise
me that you will not tell a human being that you are going to Eyford
to-night. I hope that I make it all plain?’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘I quite follow you,’ said I. ‘The only point which I could not quite
understand was what use you could make of a hydraulic press in
excavating fuller’s-earth, which, as I understand, is dug out like
gravel from a pit.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Ah!’ said he carelessly, ‘we have our own process. We compress the
earth into bricks, so as to remove them without revealing what they
are. But that is a mere detail. I have taken you fully into my
confidence now, Mr. Hatherley, and I have shown you how I trust you.’
He rose as he spoke. ‘I shall expect you, then, at Eyford at 11:15.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘And not a word to a soul.’ He looked at me with a last long,
questioning gaze, and then, pressing my hand in a cold, dank grasp, he
hurried from the room. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, when I came to think it all over in cool blood I was very much
astonished, as you may both think, at this sudden commission which had
been intrusted to me. On the one hand, of course, I was glad, for the
fee was at least tenfold what I should have asked had I set a price
upon my own services, and it was possible that this order might lead to
other ones. On the other hand, the face and manner of my patron had
made an unpleasant impression upon me, and I could not think that his
explanation of the fuller’s-earth was sufficient to explain the
necessity for my coming at midnight, and his extreme anxiety lest I
should tell anyone of my errand. However, I threw all fears to the
winds, ate a hearty supper, drove to Paddington, and started off,
having obeyed to the letter the injunction as to holding my tongue. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “At Reading I had to change not only my carriage but my station.
However, I was in time for the last train to Eyford, and I reached the
little dim-lit station after eleven o’clock. I was the only passenger
who got out there, and there was no one upon the platform save a single
sleepy porter with a lantern. As I passed out through the wicket gate,
however, I found my acquaintance of the morning waiting in the shadow
upon the other side. Without a word he grasped my arm and hurried me
into a carriage, the door of which was standing open. He drew up the
windows on either side, tapped on the wood-work, and away we went as
fast as the horse could go.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Away we went then, and we drove for at least an hour. Colonel Lysander
Stark had said that it was only seven miles, but I should think, from
the rate that we seemed to go, and from the time that we took, that it
must have been nearer twelve. He sat at my side in silence all the
time, and I was aware, more than once when I glanced in his direction,
that he was looking at me with great intensity. The country roads seem
to be not very good in that part of the world, for we lurched and
jolted terribly. I tried to look out of the windows to see something of
where we were, but they were made of frosted glass, and I could make
out nothing save the occasional bright blur of a passing light. Now and
then I hazarded some remark to break the monotony of the journey, but
the colonel answered only in monosyllables, and the conversation soon
flagged. At last, however, the bumping of the road was exchanged for
the crisp smoothness of a gravel-drive, and the carriage came to a
stand. Colonel Lysander Stark sprang out, and, as I followed after him,
pulled me swiftly into a porch which gaped in front of us. We stepped,
as it were, right out of the carriage and into the hall, so that I
failed to catch the most fleeting glance of the front of the house. The
instant that I had crossed the threshold the door slammed heavily
behind us, and I heard faintly the rattle of the wheels as the carriage
drove away. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It was pitch dark inside the house, and the colonel fumbled about
looking for matches and muttering under his breath. Suddenly a door
opened at the other end of the passage, and a long, golden bar of light
shot out in our direction. It grew broader, and a woman appeared with a
lamp in her hand, which she held above her head, pushing her face
forward and peering at us. I could see that she was pretty, and from
the gloss with which the light shone upon her dark dress I knew that it
was a rich material. She spoke a few words in a foreign tongue in a
tone as though asking a question, and when my companion answered in a
gruff monosyllable she gave such a start that the lamp nearly fell from
her hand. Colonel Stark went up to her, whispered something in her ear,
and then, pushing her back into the room from whence she had come, he
walked towards me again with the lamp in his hand. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Perhaps you will have the kindness to wait in this room for a few
minutes,’ said he, throwing open another door. It was a quiet, little,
plainly furnished room, with a round table in the centre, on which
several German books were scattered. Colonel Stark laid down the lamp
on the top of a harmonium beside the door. ‘I shall not keep you
waiting an instant,’ said he, and vanished into the darkness. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I glanced at the books upon the table, and in spite of my ignorance of
German I could see that two of them were treatises on science, the
others being volumes of poetry. Then I walked across to the window,
hoping that I might catch some glimpse of the country-side, but an oak
shutter, heavily barred, was folded across it. It was a wonderfully
silent house. There was an old clock ticking loudly somewhere in the
passage, but otherwise everything was deadly still. A vague feeling of
uneasiness began to steal over me. Who were these German people, and
what were they doing living in this strange, out-of-the-way place? And
where was the place? I was ten miles or so from Eyford, that was all I
knew, but whether north, south, east, or west I had no idea. For that
matter, Reading, and possibly other large towns, were within that
radius, so the place might not be so secluded, after all. Yet it was
quite certain, from the absolute stillness, that we were in the
country. I paced up and down the room, humming a tune under my breath
to keep up my spirits and feeling that I was thoroughly earning my
fifty-guinea fee. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Suddenly, without any preliminary sound in the midst of the utter
stillness, the door of my room swung slowly open. The woman was
standing in the aperture, the darkness of the hall behind her, the
yellow light from my lamp beating upon her eager and beautiful face. I
could see at a glance that she was sick with fear, and the sight sent a
chill to my own heart. She held up one shaking finger to warn me to be
silent, and she shot a few whispered words of broken English at me, her
eyes glancing back, like those of a frightened horse, into the gloom
behind her. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘I would go,’ said she, trying hard, as it seemed to me, to speak
calmly; ‘I would go. I should not stay here. There is no good for you
to do.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘But, madam,’ said I, ‘I have not yet done what I came for. I cannot
possibly leave until I have seen the machine.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘It is not worth your while to wait,’ she went on. ‘You can pass
through the door; no one hinders.’ And then, seeing that I smiled and
shook my head, she suddenly threw aside her constraint and made a step
forward, with her hands wrung together. ‘For the love of Heaven!’ she
whispered, ‘get away from here before it is too late!’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But I am somewhat headstrong by nature, and the more ready to engage
in an affair when there is some obstacle in the way. I thought of my
fifty-guinea fee, of my wearisome journey, and of the unpleasant night
which seemed to be before me. Was it all to go for nothing? Why should
I slink away without having carried out my commission, and without the
payment which was my due? This woman might, for all I knew, be a
monomaniac. With a stout bearing, therefore, though her manner had
shaken me more than I cared to confess, I still shook my head and
declared my intention of remaining where I was. She was about to renew
her entreaties when a door slammed overhead, and the sound of several
footsteps was heard upon the stairs. She listened for an instant, threw
up her hands with a despairing gesture, and vanished as suddenly and as
noiselessly as she had come. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The newcomers were Colonel Lysander Stark and a short thick man with a
chinchilla beard growing out of the creases of his double chin, who was
introduced to me as Mr. Ferguson. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘This is my secretary and manager,’ said the colonel. ‘By the way, I
was under the impression that I left this door shut just now. I fear
that you have felt the draught.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He shot one of his suspicious looks at me. ‘Perhaps we had better
proceed to business, then,’ said he. ‘Mr. Ferguson and I will take you
up to see the machine.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘No, no. This is only where we compress it. But never mind that. All
we wish you to do is to examine the machine and to let us know what is
wrong with it.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “We went upstairs together, the colonel first with the lamp, the fat
manager and I behind him. It was a labyrinth of an old house, with
corridors, passages, narrow winding staircases, and little low doors,
the thresholds of which were hollowed out by the generations who had
crossed them. There were no carpets and no signs of any furniture above
the ground floor, while the plaster was peeling off the walls, and the
damp was breaking through in green, unhealthy blotches. I tried to put
on as unconcerned an air as possible, but I had not forgotten the
warnings of the lady, even though I disregarded them, and I kept a keen
eye upon my two companions. Ferguson appeared to be a morose and silent
man, but I could see from the little that he said that he was at least
a fellow-countryman. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Colonel Lysander Stark stopped at last before a low door, which he
unlocked. Within was a small, square room, in which the three of us
could hardly get at one time. Ferguson remained outside, and the
colonel ushered me in. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘We are now,’ said he, ‘actually within the hydraulic press, and it
would be a particularly unpleasant thing for us if anyone were to turn
it on. The ceiling of this small chamber is really the end of the
descending piston, and it comes down with the force of many tons upon
this metal floor. There are small lateral columns of water outside
which receive the force, and which transmit and multiply it in the
manner which is familiar to you. The machine goes readily enough, but
there is some stiffness in the working of it, and it has lost a little
of its force. Perhaps you will have the goodness to look it over and to
show us how we can set it right.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I took the lamp from him, and I examined the machine very thoroughly.
It was indeed a gigantic one, and capable of exercising enormous
pressure. When I passed outside, however, and pressed down the levers
which controlled it, I knew at once by the whishing sound that there
was a slight leakage, which allowed a regurgitation of water through
one of the side cylinders. An examination showed that one of the
india-rubber bands which was round the head of a driving-rod had shrunk
so as not quite to fill the socket along which it worked. This was
clearly the cause of the loss of power, and I pointed it out to my
companions, who followed my remarks very carefully and asked several
practical questions as to how they should proceed to set it right. When
I had made it clear to them, I returned to the main chamber of the
machine and took a good look at it to satisfy my own curiosity. It was
obvious at a glance that the story of the fuller’s-earth was the merest
fabrication, for it would be absurd to suppose that so powerful an
engine could be designed for so inadequate a purpose. The walls were of
wood, but the floor consisted of a large iron trough, and when I came
to examine it I could see a crust of metallic deposit all over it. I
had stooped and was scraping at this to see exactly what it was when I
heard a muttered exclamation in German and saw the cadaverous face of
the colonel looking down at me. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I felt angry at having been tricked by so elaborate a story as that
which he had told me. ‘I was admiring your fuller’s-earth,’ said I; ‘I
think that I should be better able to advise you as to your machine if
I knew what the exact purpose was for which it was used.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The instant that I uttered the words I regretted the rashness of my
speech. His face set hard, and a baleful light sprang up in his grey
eyes. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Very well,’ said he, ‘you shall know all about the machine.’ He took
a step backward, slammed the little door, and turned the key in the
lock. I rushed towards it and pulled at the handle, but it was quite
secure, and did not give in the least to my kicks and shoves. ‘Hullo!’
I yelled. ‘Hullo! Colonel! Let me out!’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And then suddenly in the silence I heard a sound which sent my heart
into my mouth. It was the clank of the levers and the swish of the
leaking cylinder. He had set the engine at work. The lamp still stood
upon the floor where I had placed it when examining the trough. By its
light I saw that the black ceiling was coming down upon me, slowly,
jerkily, but, as none knew better than myself, with a force which must
within a minute grind me to a shapeless pulp. I threw myself,
screaming, against the door, and dragged with my nails at the lock. I
implored the colonel to let me out, but the remorseless clanking of the
levers drowned my cries. The ceiling was only a foot or two above my
head, and with my hand upraised I could feel its hard, rough surface.
Then it flashed through my mind that the pain of my death would depend
very much upon the position in which I met it. If I lay on my face the
weight would come upon my spine, and I shuddered to think of that
dreadful snap. Easier the other way, perhaps; and yet, had I the nerve
to lie and look up at that deadly black shadow wavering down upon me?
Already I was unable to stand erect, when my eye caught something which
brought a gush of hope back to my heart. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have said that though the floor and ceiling were of iron, the walls
were of wood. As I gave a last hurried glance around, I saw a thin line
of yellow light between two of the boards, which broadened and
broadened as a small panel was pushed backward. For an instant I could
hardly believe that here was indeed a door which led away from death.
The next instant I threw myself through, and lay half-fainting upon the
other side. The panel had closed again behind me, but the crash of the
lamp, and a few moments afterwards the clang of the two slabs of metal,
told me how narrow had been my escape. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I was recalled to myself by a frantic plucking at my wrist, and I
found myself lying upon the stone floor of a narrow corridor, while a
woman bent over me and tugged at me with her left hand, while she held
a candle in her right. It was the same good friend whose warning I had
so foolishly rejected. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Come! come!’ she cried breathlessly. ‘They will be here in a moment.
They will see that you are not there. Oh, do not waste the so-precious
time, but come!’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This time, at least, I did not scorn her advice. I staggered to my
feet and ran with her along the corridor and down a winding stair. The
latter led to another broad passage, and just as we reached it we heard
the sound of running feet and the shouting of two voices, one answering
the other from the floor on which  we were and from the one beneath. My
guide stopped and looked about her like one  who is at her wit’s end.
Then she threw open a door which led into a bedroom, through the window
of which the moon was shining brightly. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “As she spoke a light sprang into view at the further end of the
passage, and I saw the lean figure of Colonel Lysander Stark rushing
forward with a lantern in one hand and a weapon like a butcher’s
cleaver in the other. I rushed across the bedroom, flung open the
window, and looked out. How quiet and sweet and wholesome the garden
looked in the moonlight, and it could not be more than thirty feet
down. I clambered out upon the sill, but I hesitated to jump until I
should have heard what passed between my saviour and the ruffian who
pursued me. If she were ill-used, then at any risks I was determined to
go back to her assistance. The thought had hardly flashed through my
mind before he was at the door, pushing his way past her; but she threw
her arms round him and tried to hold him back. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Fritz! Fritz!’ she cried in English, ‘remember your promise after the
last time. You said it should not be again. He will be silent! Oh, he
will be silent!’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘You are mad, Elise!’ he shouted, struggling to break away from her.
‘You will be the ruin of us. He has seen too much. Let me pass, I say!’
He dashed her to one side, and, rushing to the window, cut at me with
his heavy weapon. I had let myself go, and was hanging by the hands to
the sill, when his blow fell. I was conscious of a dull pain, my grip
loosened, and I fell into the garden below. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I was shaken but not hurt by the fall; so I picked myself up and
rushed off among the bushes as hard as I could run, for I understood
that I was far from being out of danger yet. Suddenly, however, as I
ran, a deadly dizziness and sickness came over me. I glanced down at my
hand, which was throbbing painfully, and then, for the first time, saw
that my thumb had been cut off and that the blood was pouring from my
wound. I endeavoured to tie my handkerchief round it, but there came a
sudden buzzing in my ears, and next moment I fell in a dead faint among
the rose-bushes. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “How long I remained unconscious I cannot tell. It must have been a
very long time, for the moon had sunk, and a bright morning was
breaking when I came to myself. My clothes were all sodden with dew,
and my coat-sleeve was drenched with blood from my wounded thumb. The
smarting of it recalled in an instant all the particulars of my night’s
adventure, and I sprang to my feet with the feeling that I might hardly
yet be safe from my pursuers. But to my astonishment, when I came to
look round me, neither house nor garden were to be seen. I had been
lying in an angle of the hedge close by the high road, and just a little
lower down was a long building, which proved, upon my approaching it,
to be the very station at which I had arrived upon the previous night.
Were it not for the ugly wound upon my hand, all that had passed during
those dreadful hours might have been an evil dream. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Half dazed, I went into the station and asked about the morning train.
There would be one to Reading in less than an hour. The same porter was
on duty, I found, as had been there when I arrived. I inquired of him
whether he had ever heard of Colonel Lysander Stark. The name was
strange to him. Had he observed a carriage the night before waiting for
me? No, he had not. Was there a police-station anywhere near? There was
one about three miles off. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It was too far for me to go, weak and ill as I was. I determined to
wait until I got back to town before telling my story to the police. It
was a little past six when I arrived, so I went first to have my wound
dressed, and then the doctor was kind enough to bring me along here. I
put the case into your hands and shall do exactly what you advise.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We both sat in silence for some little time after listening to this
extraordinary narrative. Then Sherlock Holmes pulled down from the
shelf one of the ponderous commonplace books in which he placed his
cuttings. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Here is an advertisement which will interest you,” said he. “It
appeared in all the papers about a year ago. Listen to this: ‘Lost, on
the 9th inst., Mr. Jeremiah Hayling, aged twenty-six, a hydraulic
engineer. Left his lodgings at ten o’clock at night, and has not been
heard of since. Was dressed in,’ etc., etc. Ha! That represents the
last time that the colonel needed to have his machine overhauled, I
fancy.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Undoubtedly. It is quite clear that the colonel was a cool and
desperate man, who was absolutely determined that nothing should stand
in the way of his little game, like those out-and-out pirates who will
leave no survivor from a captured ship. Well, every moment now is
precious, so if you feel equal to it we shall go down to Scotland Yard
at once as a preliminary to starting for Eyford.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Some three hours or so afterwards we were all in the train together,
bound from Reading to the little Berkshire village. There were Sherlock
Holmes, the hydraulic engineer, Inspector Bradstreet, of Scotland Yard,
a plain-clothes man, and myself. Bradstreet had spread an ordnance map
of the county out upon the seat and was busy with his compasses drawing
a circle with Eyford for its centre. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “There you are,” said he. “That circle is drawn at a radius of ten
miles from the village. The place we want must be somewhere near that
line. You said ten miles, I think, sir.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “What I cannot understand,” said I, “is why they should have spared you
when they found you lying fainting in the garden. Perhaps the villain
was softened by the woman’s entreaties.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, we shall soon clear up all that,” said Bradstreet. “Well, I have
drawn my circle, and I only wish I knew at what point upon it the folk
that we are in search of are to be found.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Really, now!” cried the inspector, “you have formed your opinion!
Come, now, we shall see who agrees with you. I say it is south, for the
country is more deserted there.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And I am for north,” said I, “because there are no hills there, and
our friend says that he did not notice the carriage go up any.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Come,” cried the inspector, laughing; “it’s a very pretty diversity of
opinion. We have boxed the compass among us. Who do you give your
casting vote to?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, yes, you can. This is my point.” He placed his finger in the
centre of the circle. “This is where we shall find them.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Six out and six back. Nothing simpler. You say yourself that the horse
was fresh and glossy when you got in. How could it be that if it had
gone twelve miles over heavy roads?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Indeed, it is a likely ruse enough,” observed Bradstreet thoughtfully.
“Of course there can be no doubt as to the nature of this gang.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “None at all,” said Holmes. “They are coiners on a large scale, and
have used the machine to form the amalgam which has taken the place of
silver.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “We have known for some time that a clever gang was at work,” said the
inspector. “They have been turning out half-crowns by the thousand. We
even traced them as far as Reading, but could get no farther, for they
had covered their traces in a way that showed that they were very old
hands. But now, thanks to this lucky chance, I think that we have got
them right enough.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But the inspector was mistaken, for those criminals were not destined
to fall into the hands of justice. As we rolled into Eyford Station we
saw a gigantic column of smoke which streamed up from behind a small
clump of trees in the neighbourhood and hung like an immense ostrich
feather over the landscape. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I hear that it was during the night, sir, but it has got worse, and
the whole place is in a blaze.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The station-master laughed heartily. “No, sir, Dr. Becher is an
Englishman, and there isn’t a man in the parish who has a better-lined
waistcoat. But he has a gentleman staying with him, a patient, as I
understand, who is a foreigner, and he looks as if a little good
Berkshire beef would do him no harm.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The station-master had not finished his speech before we were all
hastening in the direction of the fire. The road topped a low hill, and
there was a great widespread whitewashed building in front of us,
spouting fire at every chink and window, while in the garden in front
three fire-engines were vainly striving to keep the flames under. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That’s it!” cried Hatherley, in intense excitement. “There is the
gravel-drive, and there are the rose-bushes where I lay. That second
window is the one that I jumped from.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, at least,” said Holmes, “you have had your revenge upon them.
There can be no question that it was your oil-lamp which, when it was
crushed in the press, set fire to the wooden walls, though no doubt
they were too excited in the chase after you to observe it at the time.
Now keep your eyes open in this crowd for your friends of last night,
though I very much fear that they are a good hundred miles off by now.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> And Holmes’ fears came to be realised, for from that day to this no
word has ever been heard either of the beautiful woman, the sinister
German, or the morose Englishman. Early that morning a peasant had met
a cart containing several people and some very bulky boxes driving
rapidly in the direction of Reading, but there all traces of the
fugitives disappeared, and even Holmes’ ingenuity failed ever to
discover the least clue as to their whereabouts. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The firemen had been much perturbed at the strange arrangements which
they had found within, and still more so by discovering a newly severed
human thumb upon a window-sill of the second floor. About sunset,
however, their efforts were at last successful, and they subdued the
flames, but not before the roof had fallen in, and the whole place been
reduced to such absolute ruin that, save some twisted cylinders and
iron piping, not a trace remained of the machinery which had cost our
unfortunate acquaintance so dearly. Large masses of nickel and of tin
were discovered stored in an out-house, but no coins were to be found,
which may have explained the presence of those bulky boxes which have
been already referred to. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> How our hydraulic engineer had been conveyed from the garden to the
spot where he recovered his senses might have remained forever a
mystery were it not for the soft mould, which told us a very plain
tale. He had evidently been carried down by two persons, one of whom
had remarkably small feet and the other unusually large ones. On the
whole, it was most probable that the silent Englishman, being less bold
or less murderous than his companion, had assisted the woman to bear
the unconscious man out of the way of danger. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well,” said our engineer ruefully as we took our seats to return once
more to London, “it has been a pretty business for me! I have lost my
thumb and I have lost a fifty-guinea fee, and what have I gained?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Experience,” said Holmes, laughing. “Indirectly it may be of value,
you know; you have only to put it into words to gain the reputation of
being excellent company for the remainder of your existence.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Lord St. Simon marriage, and its curious termination, have long
ceased to be a subject of interest in those exalted circles in which
the unfortunate bridegroom moves. Fresh scandals have eclipsed it, and
their more piquant details have drawn the gossips away from this
four-year-old drama. As I have reason to believe, however, that the
full facts have never been revealed to the general public, and as my
friend Sherlock Holmes had a considerable share in clearing the matter
up, I feel that no memoir of him would be complete without some little
sketch of this remarkable episode. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was a few weeks before my own marriage, during the days when I was
still sharing rooms with Holmes in Baker Street, that he came home from
an afternoon stroll to find a letter on the table waiting for him. I
had remained indoors all day, for the weather had taken a sudden turn
to rain, with high autumnal winds, and the jezail bullet which I had
brought back in one of my limbs as a relic of my Afghan campaign
throbbed with dull persistence. With my body in one easy-chair and my
legs upon another, I had surrounded myself with a cloud of newspapers
until at last, saturated with the news of the day, I tossed them all
aside and lay listless, watching the huge crest and monogram upon the
envelope upon the table and wondering lazily who my friend’s noble
correspondent could be. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Here is a very fashionable epistle,” I remarked as he entered. “Your
morning letters, if I remember right, were from a fish-monger and a
tide-waiter.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, my correspondence has certainly the charm of variety,” he
answered, smiling, “and the humbler are usually the more interesting.
This looks like one of those unwelcome social summonses which call upon
a man either to be bored or to lie.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I assure you, Watson, without affectation, that the status of my
client is a matter of less moment to me than the interest of his case.
It is just possible, however, that that also may not be wanting in this
new investigation. You have been reading the papers diligently of late,
have you not?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It looks like it,” said I ruefully, pointing to a huge bundle in the
corner. “I have had nothing else to do.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is fortunate, for you will perhaps be able to post me up. I read
nothing except the criminal news and the agony column. The latter is
always instructive. But if you have followed recent events so closely
you must have read about Lord St. Simon and his wedding?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That is well. The letter which I hold in my hand is from Lord St.
Simon. I will read it to you, and in return you must turn over these
papers and let me have whatever bears upon the matter. This is what he
says: </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘MY DEAR MR. SHERLOCK HOLMES,—Lord Backwater tells me that I may
    place implicit reliance upon your judgment and discretion. I have
    determined, therefore, to call upon you and to consult you in
    reference to the very painful event which has occurred in
    connection with my wedding. Mr. Lestrade, of Scotland Yard, is
    acting already in the matter, but he assures me that he sees no
    objection to your co-operation, and that he even thinks that it
    might be of some assistance. I will call at four o’clock in the
    afternoon, and, should you have any other engagement at that time,
    I hope that you will postpone it, as this matter is of paramount
    importance. Yours faithfully, </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is dated from Grosvenor Mansions, written with a quill pen, and the
noble lord has had the misfortune to get a smear of ink upon the outer
side of his right little finger,” remarked Holmes as he folded up the
epistle. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Then I have just time, with your assistance, to get clear upon the
subject. Turn over those papers and arrange the extracts in their order
of time, while I take a glance as to who our client is.” He picked a
red-covered volume from a line of books of reference beside the
mantelpiece. “Here he is,” said he, sitting down and flattening it out
upon his knee. “‘Lord Robert Walsingham de Vere St. Simon, second son
of the Duke of Balmoral.’ Hum! ‘Arms: Azure, three caltrops in chief
over a fess sable. Born in 1846.’ He’s forty-one years of age, which is
mature for marriage. Was Under-Secretary for the colonies in a late
administration. The Duke, his father, was at one time Secretary for
Foreign Affairs. They inherit Plantagenet blood by direct descent, and
Tudor on the distaff side. Ha! Well, there is nothing very instructive
in all this. I think that I must turn to you Watson, for something more
solid.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have very little difficulty in finding what I want,” said I, “for
the facts are quite recent, and the matter struck me as remarkable. I
feared to refer them to you, however, as I knew that you had an inquiry
on hand and that you disliked the intrusion of other matters.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, you mean the little problem of the Grosvenor Square furniture van.
That is quite cleared up now—though, indeed, it was obvious from the
first. Pray give me the results of your newspaper selections.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Here is the first notice which I can find. It is in the personal
column of the _Morning Post_, and dates, as you see, some weeks back:
‘A marriage has been arranged,’ it says, ‘and will, if rumour is
correct, very shortly take place, between Lord Robert St. Simon, second
son of the Duke of Balmoral, and Miss Hatty Doran, the only daughter of
Aloysius Doran. Esq., of San Francisco, Cal., U.S.A.’ That is all.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “There was a paragraph amplifying this in one of the society papers of
the same week. Ah, here it is: ‘There will soon be a call for
protection in the marriage  market, for the present free-trade
principle appears to tell heavily against our home product. One by one
the management of the noble houses of Great Britain is passing into the
hands of our fair cousins from across the Atlantic. An important
addition has been made during the last week to the list of the prizes
which have been borne away by these charming invaders. Lord St. Simon,
who has shown himself for over twenty years proof against the little
god’s arrows, has now definitely announced his approaching marriage
with Miss Hatty Doran, the fascinating daughter of a California
millionaire. Miss Doran, whose graceful figure and striking face
attracted much attention at the Westbury House festivities, is an only
child, and it is currently reported that her dowry will run to
considerably over the six figures, with expectancies for the future. As
it is an open secret that the Duke of Balmoral has been compelled to
sell his pictures within the last few years, and as Lord St. Simon has
no property of his own save the small estate of Birchmoor, it is
obvious that the Californian heiress is not the only gainer by an
alliance which will enable her to make the easy and common transition
from a Republican lady to a British peeress.’” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, yes; plenty. Then there is another note in the _Morning Post_ to
say that the marriage would be an absolutely quiet one, that it would
be at St. George’s, Hanover Square, that only half a dozen intimate
friends would be invited, and that the party would return to the
furnished house at Lancaster Gate which has been taken by Mr. Aloysius
Doran. Two days later—that is, on Wednesday last—there is a curt
announcement that the wedding had taken place, and that the honeymoon
would be passed at Lord Backwater’s place, near Petersfield. Those are
all the notices which appeared before the disappearance of the bride.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “They often vanish before the ceremony, and occasionally during the
honeymoon; but I cannot call to mind anything quite so prompt as this.
Pray let me have the details.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Such as they are, they are set forth in a single article of a morning
paper of yesterday, which I will read to you. It is headed, ‘Singular
Occurrence at a Fashionable Wedding’: </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘The family of Lord Robert St. Simon has been thrown into the greatest
consternation by the strange and painful episodes which have taken
place in connection with his wedding. The ceremony, as shortly
announced in the papers of yesterday, occurred on the previous morning;
but it is only now that it has been possible to confirm the strange
rumours which have been so persistently floating about. In spite of the
attempts of the friends to hush the matter up, so much public attention
has now been drawn to it that no good purpose can be served by
affecting to disregard what is a common subject for conversation. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘The ceremony, which was performed at St. George’s, Hanover Square,
was a very quiet one, no one being present save the father of the
bride, Mr. Aloysius Doran, the Duchess of Balmoral, Lord Backwater,
Lord Eustace and Lady Clara St. Simon (the younger brother and sister
of the bridegroom), and Lady Alicia Whittington. The whole party
proceeded afterwards to the house of Mr. Aloysius Doran, at Lancaster
Gate, where breakfast had been prepared. It appears that some little
trouble was caused by a woman, whose name has not been ascertained, who
endeavoured to force her way into the house after the bridal party,
alleging that she had some claim upon Lord St. Simon. It was only after
a painful and prolonged scene that she was ejected by the butler and
the footman. The bride, who had fortunately entered the house before
this unpleasant interruption, had sat down to breakfast with the rest,
when she complained of a sudden indisposition and retired to her room.
Her prolonged absence having caused some comment, her father followed
her, but learned from her maid that she had only come up to her chamber
for an instant, caught up an ulster and bonnet, and hurried down to the
passage. One of the footmen declared that he had seen a lady leave the
house thus apparelled, but had refused to credit that it was his
mistress, believing her to be with the company. On ascertaining that
his daughter had disappeared, Mr. Aloysius Doran, in conjunction with
the bridegroom, instantly put themselves in communication with the
police, and very energetic inquiries are being made, which will
probably result in a speedy clearing up of this very singular business.
Up to a late hour last night, however, nothing had transpired as to the
whereabouts of the missing lady. There are rumours of foul play in the
matter, and it is said that the police have caused the arrest of the
woman who had caused the original disturbance, in the belief that, from
jealousy or some other motive, she may have been concerned in the
strange disappearance of the bride.’” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That Miss Flora Millar, the lady who had caused the disturbance, has
actually been arrested. It appears that she was formerly a _danseuse_
at the Allegro, and that she has known the bridegroom for some years.
There are no further particulars, and the whole case is in your hands
now—so far as it has been set forth in the public press.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And an exceedingly interesting case it appears to be. I would not have
missed it for worlds. But there is a ring at the bell, Watson, and as
the clock makes it a few minutes after four, I have no doubt that this
will prove to be our noble client. Do not dream of going, Watson, for I
very much prefer having a witness, if only as a check to my own
memory.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Lord Robert St. Simon,” announced our page-boy, throwing open the
door. A gentleman entered, with a pleasant, cultured face, high-nosed
and pale, with something perhaps of petulance about the mouth, and with
the steady, well-opened eye of a man whose pleasant lot it had ever
been to command and to be obeyed. His manner was brisk, and yet his
general appearance gave an undue impression of age, for he had a slight
forward stoop and a little bend of the knees as he walked. His hair,
too, as he swept off his very curly-brimmed hat, was grizzled round the
edges and thin upon the top. As to his dress, it was careful to the
verge of foppishness, with high collar, black frock-coat, white
waistcoat, yellow gloves, patent-leather shoes, and light-coloured
gaiters. He advanced slowly into the room, turning his head from left
to right, and swinging in his right hand the cord which held his golden
eyeglasses. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Good-day, Lord St. Simon,” said Holmes, rising and bowing. “Pray take
the basket-chair. This is my friend and colleague, Dr. Watson. Draw up
a little to the fire, and we will talk this matter over.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “A most painful matter to me, as you can most readily imagine, Mr.
Holmes. I have been cut to the quick. I understand that you have
already managed several delicate cases of this sort, sir, though I
presume that they were hardly from the same class of society.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You can understand,” said Holmes suavely, “that I extend to the
affairs of my other clients the same secrecy which I promise to you in
yours.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Of course! Very right! very right! I’m sure I beg pardon. As to my own
case, I am ready to give you any information which may assist you in
forming an opinion.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Thank you. I have already learned all that is in the public prints,
nothing more. I presume that I may take it as correct—this article, for
example, as to the disappearance of the bride.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But it needs a great deal of supplementing before anyone could offer
an opinion. I think that I may arrive at my facts most directly by
questioning you.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “In mining. He had nothing a few years ago. Then he struck gold,
invested it, and came up by leaps and bounds.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The nobleman swung his glasses a little faster and stared down into the
fire. “You see, Mr. Holmes,” said he, “my wife was twenty before her
father became a rich man. During that time she ran free in a mining
camp and wandered through woods or mountains, so that her education has
come from Nature rather than from the schoolmaster. She is what we call
in England a tomboy, with a strong nature, wild and free, unfettered by
any sort of traditions. She is impetuous—volcanic, I was about to say.
She is swift in making up her mind and fearless in carrying out her
resolutions. On the other hand, I would not have given her the name
which I have the honour to bear”—he gave a little stately cough—“had I
not thought her to be at bottom a noble woman. I believe that she is
capable of heroic self-sacrifice and that anything dishonourable would
be repugnant to her.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I brought this with me.” He opened a locket and showed us the full
face of a very lovely woman. It was not a photograph but an ivory
miniature, and the artist had brought out the full effect of the
lustrous black hair, the large dark eyes, and the exquisite mouth.
Holmes gazed long and earnestly at it. Then he closed the locket and
handed it back to Lord St. Simon. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, her father brought her over for this last London season. I met
her several times, became engaged to her, and have now married her.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, to tell the truth, I saw then the first signs that I had ever
seen that her temper was just a little sharp. The incident however, was
too trivial to relate and can have no possible bearing upon the case.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, it is childish. She dropped her bouquet as we went towards the
vestry. She was passing the front pew at the time, and it fell over
into the pew. There was a moment’s delay, but the gentleman in the pew
handed it up to her again, and it did not appear to be the worse for
the fall. Yet when I spoke to her of the matter, she answered me
abruptly; and in the carriage, on our way home, she seemed absurdly
agitated over this trifling cause.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No, no; I call him a gentleman by courtesy, but he was quite a
common-looking person. I hardly noticed his appearance. But really I
think that we are wandering rather far from the point.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Lady St. Simon, then, returned from the wedding in a less cheerful
frame of mind than she had gone to it. What did she do on re-entering
her father’s house?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “A little too much so. It seemed to me that her mistress allowed her to
take great liberties. Still, of course, in America they look upon these
things in a different way.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Lady St. Simon said something about ‘jumping a claim.’ She was
accustomed to use slang of the kind. I have no idea what she meant.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No, alone. She was very independent in little matters like that. Then,
after we had sat down for ten minutes or so, she rose hurriedly,
muttered some words of apology, and left the room. She never came
back.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But this maid, Alice, as I understand, deposes that she went to her
room, covered her bride’s dress with a long ulster, put on a bonnet,
and went out.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Quite so. And she was afterwards seen walking into Hyde Park in
company with Flora Millar, a woman who is now in custody, and who had
already made a disturbance at Mr. Doran’s house that morning.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Lord St. Simon shrugged his shoulders and raised his eyebrows. “We have
been on a friendly footing for some years—I may say on a _very_
friendly footing. She used to be at the Allegro. I have not treated her
ungenerously, and she had no just cause of complaint against me, but
you know what women are, Mr. Holmes. Flora was a dear little thing, but
exceedingly hot-headed and devotedly attached to me. She wrote me
dreadful letters when she heard that I was about to be married, and, to
tell the truth, the reason why I had the marriage celebrated so quietly
was that I feared lest there might be a scandal in the church. She came
to Mr. Doran’s door just after we returned, and she endeavoured to push
her way in, uttering very abusive expressions towards my wife, and even
threatening her, but I had foreseen the possibility of something of the
sort, and I had two police fellows there in private clothes, who soon
pushed her out again. She was quiet when she saw that there was no good
in making a row.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes. That is what Mr. Lestrade, of Scotland Yard, looks upon as so
serious. It is thought that Flora decoyed my wife out and laid some
terrible trap for her.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, really, I came to seek a theory, not to propound one. I have
given you all the facts. Since you ask me, however, I may say that it
has occurred to me as possible that the excitement of this affair, the
consciousness that she had made so immense a social stride, had the
effect of causing some little nervous disturbance in my wife.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, really, when I consider that she has turned her back—I will not
say upon me, but upon so much that many have aspired to without
success—I can hardly explain it in any other fashion.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, certainly that is also a conceivable hypothesis,” said Holmes,
smiling. “And now, Lord St. Simon, I think that I have nearly all my
data. May I ask whether you were seated at the breakfast-table so that
you could see out of the window?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Lord St. Simon shook his head. “I am afraid that it will take wiser
heads than yours or mine,” he remarked, and bowing in a stately,
old-fashioned manner he departed. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is very good of Lord St. Simon to honour my head by putting it on a
level with his own,” said Sherlock Holmes, laughing. “I think that I
shall have a whisky and soda and a cigar after all this
cross-questioning. I had formed my conclusions as to the case before
our client came into the room.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have notes of several similar cases, though none, as I remarked
before, which were quite as prompt. My whole examination served to turn
my conjecture into a certainty. Circumstantial evidence is occasionally
very convincing, as when you find a trout in the milk, to quote
Thoreau’s example.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Without, however, the knowledge of pre-existing cases which serves me
so well. There was a parallel instance in Aberdeen some years back, and
something on very much the same lines at Munich the year after the
Franco-Prussian War. It is one of these cases—but, hullo, here is
Lestrade! Good-afternoon, Lestrade! You will find an extra tumbler upon
the sideboard, and there are cigars in the box.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The official detective was attired in a pea-jacket and cravat, which
gave him a decidedly nautical appearance, and he carried a black canvas
bag in his hand. With a short greeting he seated himself and lit the
cigar which had been offered to him. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And I feel dissatisfied. It is this infernal St. Simon marriage case.
I can make neither head nor tail of the business.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Who ever heard of such a mixed affair? Every clue seems to slip
through my fingers. I have been at work upon it all day.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Then perhaps you will kindly explain how it is that we found this in
it?” He opened his bag as he spoke, and tumbled onto the floor a
wedding-dress of watered silk, a pair of white satin shoes and a
bride’s wreath and veil, all discoloured and soaked in water. “There,”
said he, putting a new wedding-ring upon the top of the pile. “There is
a little nut for you to crack, Master Holmes.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No. They were found floating near the margin by a park-keeper. They
have been identified as her clothes, and it seemed to me that if the
clothes were there the body would not be far off.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “By the same brilliant reasoning, every man’s body is to be found in
the neighbourhood of his wardrobe. And pray what did you hope to arrive
at through this?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Are you, indeed, now?” cried Lestrade with some bitterness. “I am
afraid, Holmes, that you are not very practical with your deductions
and your inferences. You have made two blunders in as many minutes.
This dress does implicate Miss Flora Millar.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “In the dress is a pocket. In the pocket is a card-case. In the
card-case is a note. And here is the very note.” He slapped it down
upon the table in front of him. “Listen to this: ‘You will see me when
all is ready. Come at once. F. H. M.’ Now my theory all along has been
that Lady St. Simon was decoyed away by Flora Millar, and that she,
with confederates, no doubt, was responsible for her disappearance.
Here, signed with her initials, is the very note which was no doubt
quietly slipped into her hand at the door and which lured her within
their reach.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Very good, Lestrade,” said Holmes, laughing. “You really are very fine
indeed. Let me see it.” He took up the paper in a listless way, but his
attention instantly became riveted, and he gave a little cry of
satisfaction. “This is indeed important,” said he. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “There’s nothing in it. I looked at it before,” said Lestrade. “‘Oct.
4th, rooms 8_s_., breakfast 2_s_. 6_d_., cocktail 1_s_., lunch 2_s_.
6_d_., glass sherry, 8_d_.’ I see nothing in that.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Very likely not. It is most important, all the same. As to the note,
it is important also, or at least the initials are, so I congratulate
you again.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I’ve wasted time enough,” said Lestrade, rising. “I believe in hard
work and not in sitting by the fire spinning fine theories. Good-day,
Mr. Holmes, and we shall see which gets to the bottom of the matter
first.” He gathered up the garments, thrust them into the bag, and made
for the door. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Just one hint to you, Lestrade,” drawled Holmes before his rival
vanished; “I will tell you the true solution of the matter. Lady St.
Simon is a myth. There is not, and there never has been, any such
person.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Lestrade looked sadly at my companion. Then he turned to me, tapped his
forehead three times, shook his head solemnly, and hurried away. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He had hardly shut the door behind him when Holmes rose to put on his
overcoat. “There is something in what the fellow says about outdoor
work,” he remarked, “so I think, Watson, that I must leave you to your
papers for a little.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was after five o’clock when Sherlock Holmes left me, but I had no
time to be lonely, for within an hour there arrived a confectioner’s
man with a very large flat box. This he unpacked with the help of a
youth whom he had brought with him, and presently, to my very great
astonishment, a quite epicurean little cold supper began to be laid out
upon our humble lodging-house mahogany. There were a couple of brace of
cold woodcock, a pheasant, a _pâté de foie gras_ pie with a group of
ancient and cobwebby bottles. Having laid out all these luxuries, my
two visitors vanished away, like the genii of the Arabian Nights, with
no explanation save that the things had been paid for and were ordered
to this address. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Just before nine o’clock Sherlock Holmes stepped briskly into the room.
His features were gravely set, but there was a light in his eye which
made me think that he had not been disappointed in his conclusions. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, I fancy we may have some company dropping in,” said he. “I am
surprised that Lord St. Simon has not already arrived. Ha! I fancy that
I hear his step now upon the stairs.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was indeed our visitor of the afternoon who came bustling in,
dangling his glasses more vigorously than ever, and with a very
perturbed expression upon his aristocratic features. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “What will the Duke say,” he murmured, “when he hears that one of the
family has been subjected to such humiliation?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I fail to see that anyone is to blame. I can hardly see how the lady
could have acted otherwise, though her abrupt method of doing it was
undoubtedly to be regretted. Having no mother, she had no one to advise
her at such a crisis.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I think that I heard a ring,” said Holmes. “Yes, there are steps on
the landing. If I cannot persuade you to take a lenient view of the
matter, Lord St. Simon, I have brought an advocate here who may be more
successful.” He opened the door and ushered in a lady and gentleman.
“Lord St. Simon,” said he “allow me to introduce you to Mr. and Mrs.
Francis Hay Moulton. The lady, I think, you have already met.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> At the sight of these newcomers our client had sprung from his seat and
stood very erect, with his eyes cast down and his hand thrust into the
breast of his frock-coat, a picture of offended dignity. The lady had
taken a quick step forward and had held out her hand to him, but he
still refused to raise his eyes. It was as well for his resolution,
perhaps, for her pleading face was one which it was hard to resist. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, yes, I know that I have treated you real bad and that I should
have spoken to you before I went; but I was kind of rattled, and from
the time when I saw Frank here again I just didn’t know what I was
doing or saying. I only wonder I didn’t fall down and do a faint right
there before the altar.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If I may give an opinion,” remarked the strange gentleman, “we’ve had
just a little too much secrecy over this business already. For my part,
I should like all Europe and America to hear the rights of it.” He was
a small, wiry, sunburnt man, clean-shaven, with a sharp face and alert
manner. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Then I’ll tell our story right away,” said the lady. “Frank here and I
met in ’84, in McQuire’s camp, near the Rockies, where Pa was working a
claim. We were engaged to each other, Frank and I; but then one day
father struck a rich pocket and made a pile, while poor Frank here had
a claim that petered out and came to nothing. The richer Pa grew the
poorer was Frank; so at last Pa wouldn’t hear of our engagement lasting
any longer, and he took me away to ’Frisco. Frank wouldn’t throw up his
hand, though; so he followed me there, and he saw me without Pa knowing
anything about it. It would only have made him mad to know, so we just
fixed it all up for ourselves. Frank said that he would go and make his
pile, too, and never come back to claim me until he had as much as Pa.
So then I promised to wait for him to the end of time and pledged
myself not to marry anyone else while he lived. ‘Why shouldn’t we be
married right away, then,’ said he, ‘and then I will feel sure of you;
and I won’t claim to be your husband until I come back?’ Well, we
talked it over, and he had fixed it all up so nicely, with a clergyman
all ready in waiting, that we just did it right there; and then Frank
went off to seek his fortune, and I went back to Pa. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The next I heard of Frank was that he was in Montana, and then he went
prospecting in Arizona, and then I heard of him from New Mexico. After
that came a long newspaper story about how a miners’ camp had been
attacked by Apache Indians, and there was my Frank’s name among the
killed. I fainted dead away, and I was very sick for months after. Pa
thought I had a decline and took me to half the doctors in ’Frisco. Not
a word of news came for a year and more, so that I never doubted that
Frank was really dead. Then Lord St. Simon came to ’Frisco, and we came
to London, and a marriage was arranged, and Pa was very pleased, but I
felt all the time that no man on this earth would ever take the place
in my heart that had been given to my poor Frank. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Still, if I had married Lord St. Simon, of course I’d have done my
duty by him. We can’t command our love, but we can our actions. I went
to the altar with him with the intention to make him just as good a
wife as it was in me to be. But you may imagine what I felt when, just
as I came to the altar rails, I glanced back and saw Frank standing and
looking at me out of the first pew. I thought it was his ghost at
first; but when I looked again there he was still, with a kind of
question in his eyes, as if to ask me whether I were glad or sorry to
see him. I wonder I didn’t drop. I know that everything was turning
round, and the words of the clergyman were just like the buzz of a bee
in my ear. I didn’t know what to do. Should I stop the service and make
a scene in the church? I glanced at him again, and he seemed to know
what I was thinking, for he raised his finger to his lips to tell me to
be still. Then I saw him scribble on a piece of paper, and I knew that
he was writing me a note. As I passed his pew on the way out I dropped
my bouquet over to him, and he slipped the note into my hand when he
returned me the flowers. It was only a line asking me to join him when
he made the sign to me to do so. Of course I never doubted for a moment
that my first duty was now to him, and I determined to do just whatever
he might direct. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “When I got back I told my maid, who had known him in California, and
had always been his friend. I ordered her to say nothing, but to get a
few things packed and my ulster ready. I know I ought to have spoken to
Lord St. Simon, but it was dreadful hard before his mother and all
those great people. I just made up my mind to run away and explain
afterwards. I hadn’t been at the table ten minutes before I saw Frank
out of the window at the other side of the road. He beckoned to me and
then began walking into the Park. I slipped out, put on my things, and
followed him. Some woman came talking something or other about Lord St.
Simon to me—seemed to me from the little I heard as if he had a little
secret of his own before marriage also—but I managed to get away from
her and soon overtook Frank. We got into a cab together, and away we
drove to some lodgings he had taken in Gordon Square, and that was my
true wedding after all those years of waiting. Frank had been a
prisoner among the Apaches, had escaped, came on to ’Frisco, found that
I had given him up for dead and had gone to England, followed me there,
and had come upon me at last on the very morning of my second wedding.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I saw it in a paper,” explained the American. “It gave the name and
the church but not where the lady lived.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Then we had a talk as to what we should do, and Frank was all for
openness, but I was so ashamed of it all that I felt as if I should
like to vanish away and never see any of them again—just sending a line
to Pa, perhaps, to show him that I was alive. It was awful to me to
think of all those lords and ladies sitting round that breakfast-table
and waiting for me to come back. So Frank took my wedding-clothes and
things and made a bundle of them, so that I should not be traced, and
dropped them away somewhere where no one could find them. It is likely
that we should have gone on to Paris to-morrow, only that this good
gentleman, Mr. Holmes, came round to us this evening, though how he
found us is more than I can think, and he showed us very clearly and
kindly that I was wrong and that Frank was right, and that we should be
putting ourselves in the wrong if we were so secret. Then he offered to
give us a chance of talking to Lord St. Simon alone, and so we came
right away round to his rooms at once. Now, Robert, you have heard it
all, and I am very sorry if I have given you pain, and I hope that you
do not think very meanly of me.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Lord St. Simon had by no means relaxed his rigid attitude, but had
listened with a frowning brow and a compressed lip to this long
narrative. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Excuse me,” he said, “but it is not my custom to discuss my most
intimate personal affairs in this public manner.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, certainly, if it would give you any pleasure.” He put out his hand
and coldly grasped that which she extended to him. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I think that there you ask a little too much,” responded his Lordship.
“I may be forced to acquiesce in these recent developments, but I can
hardly be expected to make merry over them. I think that with your
permission I will now wish you all a very good-night.” He included us
all in a sweeping bow and stalked out of the room. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Then I trust that you at least will honour me with your company,” said
Sherlock Holmes. “It is always a joy to meet an American, Mr. Moulton,
for I am one of those who believe that the folly of a monarch and the
blundering of a minister in far-gone years will not prevent our
children from being some day citizens of the same world-wide country
under a flag which shall be a quartering of the Union Jack with the
Stars and Stripes.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The case has been an interesting one,” remarked Holmes when our
visitors had left us, “because it serves to show very clearly how
simple the explanation may be of an affair which at first sight seems
to be almost inexplicable. Nothing could be more natural than the
sequence of events as narrated by this lady, and nothing stranger than
the result when viewed, for instance, by Mr. Lestrade of Scotland
Yard.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “From the first, two facts were very obvious to me, the one that the
lady had been quite willing to undergo the wedding ceremony, the other
that she had repented of it within a few minutes of returning home.
Obviously something had occurred during the morning, then, to cause her
to change her mind. What could that something be? She could not have
spoken to anyone when she was out, for she had been in the company of
the bridegroom. Had she seen someone, then? If she had, it must be
someone from America because she had spent so short a time in this
country that she could hardly have allowed anyone to acquire so deep an
influence over her that the mere sight of him would induce her to
change her plans so completely. You see we have already arrived, by a
process of exclusion, at the idea that she might have seen an American.
Then who could this American be, and why should he possess so much
influence over her? It might be a lover; it might be a husband. Her
young womanhood had, I knew, been spent in rough scenes and under
strange conditions. So far I had got before I ever heard Lord St.
Simon’s narrative. When he told us of a man in a pew, of the change in
the bride’s manner, of so transparent a device for obtaining a note as
the dropping of a bouquet, of her resort to her confidential maid, and
of her very significant allusion to claim-jumping—which in miners’
parlance means taking possession of that which another person has a
prior claim to—the whole situation became absolutely clear. She had
gone off with a man, and the man was either a lover or was a previous
husband—the chances being in favour of the latter.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It might have been difficult, but friend Lestrade held information in
his hands the value of which he did not himself know. The initials
were, of course, of the highest importance, but more valuable still was
it to know that within a week he had settled his bill at one of the
most select London hotels.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “By the select prices. Eight shillings for a bed and eightpence for a
glass of sherry pointed to one of the most expensive hotels. There are
not many in London which charge at that rate. In the second one which I
visited in Northumberland Avenue, I learned by an inspection of the
book that Francis H. Moulton, an American gentleman, had left only the
day before, and on looking over the entries against him, I came upon
the very items which I had seen in the duplicate bill. His letters were
to be forwarded to 226 Gordon Square; so thither I travelled, and being
fortunate enough to find the loving couple at home, I ventured to give
them some paternal advice and to point out to them that it would be
better in every way that they should make their position a little
clearer both to the general public and to Lord St. Simon in particular.
I invited them to meet him here, and, as you see, I made him keep the
appointment.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Ah, Watson,” said Holmes, smiling, “perhaps you would not be very
gracious either, if, after all the trouble of wooing and wedding, you
found yourself deprived in an instant of wife and of fortune. I think
that we may judge Lord St. Simon very mercifully and thank our stars
that we are never likely to find ourselves in the same position. Draw
your chair up and hand me my violin, for the only problem we have still
to solve is how to while away these bleak autumnal evenings.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Holmes,” said I as I stood one morning in our bow-window looking down
the street, “here is a madman coming along. It seems rather sad that
his relatives should allow him to come out alone.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> My friend rose lazily from his armchair and stood with his hands in the
pockets of his dressing-gown, looking over my shoulder. It was a
bright, crisp February morning, and the snow of the day before still
lay deep upon the ground, shimmering brightly in the wintry sun. Down
the centre of Baker Street it had been ploughed into a brown crumbly
band by the traffic, but at either side and on the heaped-up edges of
the footpaths it still lay as white as when it fell. The grey pavement
had been cleaned and scraped, but was still dangerously slippery, so
that there were fewer passengers than usual. Indeed, from the direction
of the Metropolitan Station no one was coming save the single gentleman
whose eccentric conduct had drawn my attention. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He was a man of about fifty, tall, portly, and imposing, with a
massive, strongly marked face and a commanding figure. He was dressed
in a sombre yet rich style, in black frock-coat, shining hat, neat
brown gaiters, and well-cut pearl-grey trousers. Yet his actions were
in absurd contrast to the dignity of his dress and features, for he was
running hard, with occasional little springs, such as a weary man gives
who is little accustomed to set any tax upon his legs. As he ran he
jerked his hands up and down, waggled his head, and writhed his face
into the most extraordinary contortions. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “What on earth can be the matter with him?” I asked. “He is looking up
at the numbers of the houses.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes; I rather think he is coming to consult me professionally. I think
that I recognise the symptoms. Ha! did I not tell you?” As he spoke,
the man, puffing and blowing, rushed at our door and pulled at our bell
until the whole house resounded with the clanging. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> A few moments later he was in our room, still puffing, still
gesticulating, but with so fixed a look of grief and despair in his
eyes that our smiles were turned in an instant to horror and pity. For
a while he could not get his words out, but swayed his body and plucked
at his hair like one who has been driven to the extreme limits of his
reason. Then, suddenly springing to his feet, he beat his head against
the wall with such force that we both rushed upon him and tore him away
to the centre of the room. Sherlock Holmes pushed him down into the
easy-chair and, sitting beside him, patted his hand and chatted with
him in the easy, soothing tones which he knew so well how to employ. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You have come to me to tell your story, have you not?” said he. “You
are fatigued with your haste. Pray wait until you have recovered
yourself, and then I shall be most happy to look into any little
problem which you may submit to me.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The man sat for a minute or more with a heaving chest, fighting against
his emotion. Then he passed his handkerchief over his brow, set his
lips tight, and turned his face towards us. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “God knows I have!—a trouble which is enough to unseat my reason, so
sudden and so terrible is it. Public disgrace I might have faced,
although I am a man whose character has never yet borne a stain.
Private affliction also is the lot of every man; but the two coming
together, and in so frightful a form, have been enough to shake my very
soul. Besides, it is not I alone. The very noblest in the land may
suffer unless some way be found out of this horrible affair.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Pray compose yourself, sir,” said Holmes, “and let me have a clear
account of who you are and what it is that has befallen you.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My name,” answered our visitor, “is probably familiar to your ears. I
am Alexander Holder, of the banking firm of Holder & Stevenson, of
Threadneedle Street.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The name was indeed well known to us as belonging to the senior partner
in the second largest private banking concern in the City of London.
What could have happened, then, to bring one of the foremost citizens
of London to this most pitiable pass? We waited, all curiosity, until
with another effort he braced himself to tell his story. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I feel that time is of value,” said he; “that is why I hastened here
when the police inspector suggested that I should secure your
co-operation. I came to Baker Street by the Underground and hurried
from there on foot, for the cabs go slowly through this snow. That is
why I was so out of breath, for I am a man who takes very little
exercise. I feel better now, and I will put the facts before you as
shortly and yet as clearly as I can. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is, of course, well known to you that in a successful banking
business as much depends upon our being able to find remunerative
investments for our funds as upon our increasing our connection and the
number of our depositors. One of our most lucrative means of laying out
money is in the shape of loans, where the security is unimpeachable. We
have done a good deal in this direction during the last few years, and
there are many noble families to whom we have advanced large sums upon
the security of their pictures, libraries, or plate. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yesterday morning I was seated in my office at the bank when a card
was brought in to me by one of the clerks. I started when I saw the
name, for it was that of none other than—well, perhaps even to you I
had better say no more than that it was a name which is a household
word all over the earth—one of the highest, noblest, most exalted names
in England. I was overwhelmed by the honour and attempted, when he
entered, to say so, but he plunged at once into business with the air
of a man who wishes to hurry quickly through a disagreeable task. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘It is absolutely essential to me,’ said he, ‘that I should have £
50,000 at once. I could, of course, borrow so trifling a sum ten times
over from my friends, but I much prefer to make it a matter of business
and to carry out that business myself. In my position you can readily
understand that it is unwise to place one’s self under obligations.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Next Monday I have a large sum due to me, and I shall then most
certainly repay what you advance, with whatever interest you think it
right to charge. But it is very essential to me that the money should
be paid at once.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘I should be happy to advance it without further parley from my own
private purse,’ said I, ‘were it not that the strain would be rather
more than it could bear. If, on the other hand, I am to do it in the
name of the firm, then in justice to my partner I must insist that,
even in your case, every businesslike precaution should be taken.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘I should much prefer to have it so,’ said he, raising up a square,
black morocco case which he had laid beside his chair. ‘You have
doubtless heard of the Beryl Coronet?’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Precisely.’ He opened the case, and there, imbedded in soft,
flesh-coloured velvet, lay the magnificent piece of jewellery which he
had named. ‘There are thirty-nine enormous beryls,’ said he, ‘and the
price of the gold chasing is incalculable. The lowest estimate would
put the worth of the coronet at double the sum which I have asked. I am
prepared to leave it with you as my security.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘The propriety of my leaving it. You may set your mind at rest about
that. I should not dream of doing so were it not absolutely certain
that I should be able in four days to reclaim it. It is a pure matter
of form. Is the security sufficient?’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘You understand, Mr. Holder, that I am giving you a strong proof of
the confidence which I have in you, founded upon all that I have heard
of you. I rely upon you not only to be discreet and to refrain from all
gossip upon the matter but, above all, to preserve this coronet with
every possible precaution because I need not say that a great public
scandal would be caused if any harm were to befall it. Any injury to it
would be almost as serious as its complete loss, for there are no
beryls in the world to match these, and it would be impossible to
replace them. I leave it with you, however, with every confidence, and
I shall call for it in person on Monday morning.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Seeing that my client was anxious to leave, I said no more but,
calling for my cashier, I ordered him to pay over fifty £ 1000 notes.
When I was alone once more, however, with the precious case lying upon
the table in front of me, I could not but think with some misgivings of
the immense responsibility which it entailed upon me. There could be no
doubt that, as it was a national possession, a horrible scandal would
ensue if any misfortune should occur to it. I already regretted having
ever consented to take charge of it. However, it was too late to alter
the matter now, so I locked it up in my private safe and turned once
more to my work. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “When evening came I felt that it would be an imprudence to leave so
precious a thing in the office behind me. Bankers’ safes had been
forced before now, and why should not mine be? If so, how terrible
would be the position in which I should find myself! I determined,
therefore, that for the next few days I would always carry the case
backward and forward with me, so that it might never be really out of
my reach. With this intention, I called a cab and drove out to my house
at Streatham, carrying the jewel with me. I did not breathe freely
until I had taken it upstairs and locked it in the bureau of my
dressing-room. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And now a word as to my household, Mr. Holmes, for I wish you to
thoroughly understand the situation. My groom and my page sleep out of
the house, and may be set aside altogether. I have three maid-servants
who have been with me a number of years and whose absolute reliability
is quite above suspicion. Another, Lucy Parr, the second waiting-maid,
has only been in my service a few months. She came with an excellent
character, however, and has always given me satisfaction. She is a very
pretty girl and has attracted admirers who have occasionally hung about
the place. That is the only drawback which we have found to her, but we
believe her to be a thoroughly good girl in every way. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “So much for the servants. My family itself is so small that it will
not take me long to describe it. I am a widower and have an only son,
Arthur. He has been a disappointment to me, Mr. Holmes—a grievous
disappointment. I have no doubt that I am myself to blame. People tell
me that I have spoiled him. Very likely I have. When my dear wife died
I felt that he was all I had to love. I could not bear to see the smile
fade even for a moment from his face. I have never denied him a wish.
Perhaps it would have been better for both of us had I been sterner,
but I meant it for the best. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It was naturally my intention that he should succeed me in my
business, but he was not of a business turn. He was wild, wayward, and,
to speak the truth, I could not trust him in the handling of large sums
of money. When he was young he became a member of an aristocratic club,
and there, having charming manners, he was soon the intimate of a
number of men with long purses and expensive habits. He learned to play
heavily at cards and to squander money on the turf, until he had again
and again to come to me and implore me to give him an advance upon his
allowance, that he might settle his debts of honour. He tried more than
once to break away from the dangerous company which he was keeping, but
each time the influence of his friend, Sir George Burnwell, was enough
to draw him back again. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And, indeed, I could not wonder that such a man as Sir George Burnwell
should gain an influence over him, for he has frequently brought him to
my house, and I have found myself that I could hardly resist the
fascination of his manner. He is older than Arthur, a man of the world
to his finger-tips, one who had been everywhere, seen everything, a
brilliant talker, and a man of great personal beauty. Yet when I think
of him in cold blood, far away from the glamour of his presence, I am
convinced from his cynical speech and the look which I have caught in
his eyes that he is one who should be deeply distrusted. So I think,
and so, too, thinks my little Mary, who has a woman’s quick insight
into character. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And now there is only she to be described. She is my niece; but when
my brother died five years ago and left her alone in the world I
adopted her, and have looked upon her ever since as my daughter. She is
a sunbeam in my house—sweet, loving, beautiful, a wonderful manager and
housekeeper, yet as tender and quiet and gentle as a woman could be.
She is my right hand. I do not know what I could do without her. In
only one matter has she ever gone against my wishes. Twice my boy has
asked her to marry him, for he loves her devotedly, but each time she
has refused him. I think that if anyone could have drawn him into the
right path it would have been she, and that his marriage might have
changed his whole life; but now, alas! it is too late—forever too late! </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “When we were taking coffee in the drawing-room that night after
dinner, I told Arthur and Mary my experience, and of the precious
treasure which we had under our roof, suppressing only the name of my
client. Lucy Parr, who had brought in the coffee, had, I am sure, left
the room; but I cannot swear that the door was closed. Mary and Arthur
were much interested and wished to see the famous coronet, but I
thought it better not to disturb it. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Oh, any old key will fit that bureau. When I was a youngster I have
opened it myself with the key of the box-room cupboard.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He often had a wild way of talking, so that I thought little of what
he said. He followed me to my room, however, that night with a very
grave face. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘You have been very kind,’ said he, ‘but I must have this money, or
else I can never show my face inside the club again.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Yes, but you would not have me leave it a dishonoured man,’ said he.
‘I could not bear the disgrace. I must raise the money in some way, and
if you will not let me have it, then I must try other means.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I was very angry, for this was the third demand during the month. ‘You
shall not have a farthing from me,’ I cried, on which he bowed and left
the room without another word. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “When he was gone I unlocked my bureau, made sure that my treasure was
safe, and locked it again. Then I started to go round the house to see
that all was secure—a duty which I usually leave to Mary but which I
thought it well to perform myself that night. As I came down the stairs
I saw Mary herself at the side window of the hall, which she closed and
fastened as I approached. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Tell me, dad,’ said she, looking, I thought, a little disturbed, ‘did
you give Lucy, the maid, leave to go out to-night?’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘She came in just now by the back door. I have no doubt that she has
only been to the side gate to see someone, but I think that it is
hardly safe and should be stopped.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘You must speak to her in the morning, or I will if you prefer it. Are
you sure that everything is fastened?’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am endeavouring to tell you everything, Mr. Holmes, which may have
any bearing upon the case, but I beg that you will question me upon any
point which I do not make clear.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I come to a part of my story now in which I should wish to be
particularly so. I am not a very heavy sleeper, and the anxiety in my
mind tended, no doubt, to make me even less so than usual. About two in
the morning, then, I was awakened by some sound in the house. It had
ceased ere I was wide awake, but it had left an impression behind it as
though a window had gently closed somewhere. I lay listening with all
my ears. Suddenly, to my horror, there was a distinct sound of
footsteps moving softly in the next room. I slipped out of bed, all
palpitating with fear, and peeped round the corner of my dressing-room
door. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The gas was half up, as I had left it, and my unhappy boy, dressed
only in his shirt and trousers, was standing beside the light, holding
the coronet in his hands. He appeared to be wrenching at it, or bending
it with all his strength. At my cry he dropped it from his grasp and
turned as pale as death. I snatched it up and examined it. One of the
gold corners, with three of the beryls in it, was missing. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘You blackguard!’ I shouted, beside myself with rage. ‘You have
destroyed it! You have dishonoured me forever! Where are the jewels
which you have stolen?’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘There are three missing. And you know where they are. Must I call you
a liar as well as a thief? Did I not see you trying to tear off another
piece?’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘You have called me names enough,’ said he, ‘I will not stand it any
longer. I shall not say another word about this business, since you
have chosen to insult me. I will leave your house in the morning and
make my own way in the world.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘You shall leave it in the hands of the police!’ I cried half-mad with
grief and rage. ‘I shall have this matter probed to the bottom.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘You shall learn nothing from me,’ said he with a passion such as I
should not have thought was in his nature. ‘If you choose to call the
police, let the police find what they can.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “By this time the whole house was astir, for I had raised my voice in
my anger. Mary was the first to rush into my room, and, at the sight of
the coronet and of Arthur’s face, she read the whole story and, with a
scream, fell down senseless on the ground. I sent the housemaid for the
police and put the investigation into their hands at once. When the
inspector and a constable entered the house, Arthur, who had stood
sullenly with his arms folded, asked me whether it was my intention to
charge him with theft. I answered that it had ceased to be a private
matter, but had become a public one, since the ruined coronet was
national property. I was determined that the law should have its way in
everything. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘At least,’ said he, ‘you will not have me arrested at once. It would
be to your advantage as well as mine if I might leave the house for
five minutes.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘That you may get away, or perhaps that you may conceal what you have
stolen,’ said I. And then, realising the dreadful position in which I
was placed, I implored him to remember that not only my honour but that
of one who was far greater than I was at stake; and that he threatened
to raise a scandal which would convulse the nation. He might avert it
all if he would but tell me what he had done with the three missing
stones. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘You may as well face the matter,’ said I; ‘you have been caught in
the act, and no confession could make your guilt more heinous. If you
but make such reparation as is in your power, by telling us where the
beryls are, all shall be forgiven and forgotten.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Keep your forgiveness for those who ask for it,’ he answered, turning
away from me with a sneer. I saw that he was too hardened for any words
of mine to influence him. There was but one way for it. I called in the
inspector and gave him into custody. A search was made at once not only
of his person but of his room and of every portion of the house where
he could possibly have concealed the gems; but no trace of them could
be found, nor would the wretched boy open his mouth for all our
persuasions and our threats. This morning he was removed to a cell, and
I, after going through all the police formalities, have hurried round
to you to implore you to use your skill in unravelling the matter. The
police have openly confessed that they can at present make nothing of
it. You may go to any expense which you think necessary. I have already
offered a reward of £ 1000. My God, what shall I do! I have lost my
honour, my gems, and my son in one night. Oh, what shall I do!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He put a hand on either side of his head and rocked himself to and fro,
droning to himself like a child whose grief has got beyond words. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “None save my partner with his family and an occasional friend of
Arthur’s. Sir George Burnwell has been several times lately. No one
else, I think.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “God bless you! You are doing what you can for him and for me. But it
is too heavy a task. What was he doing there at all? If his purpose
were innocent, why did he not say so?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Precisely. And if it were guilty, why did he not invent a lie? His
silence appears to me to cut both ways. There are several singular
points about the case. What did the police think of the noise which
awoke you from your sleep?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “A likely story! As if a man bent on felony would slam his door so as
to wake a household. What did they say, then, of the disappearance of
these gems?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Now, my dear sir,” said Holmes, “is it not obvious to you now that
this matter really strikes very much deeper than either you or the
police were at first inclined to think? It appeared to you to be a
simple case; to me it seems exceedingly complex. Consider what is
involved by your theory. You suppose that your son came down from his
bed, went, at great risk, to your dressing-room, opened your bureau,
took out your coronet, broke off by main force a small portion of it,
went off to some other place, concealed three gems out of the
thirty-nine, with such skill that nobody can find them, and then
returned with the other thirty-six into the room in which he exposed
himself to the greatest danger of being discovered. I ask you now, is
such a theory tenable?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But what other is there?” cried the banker with a gesture of despair.
“If his motives were innocent, why does he not explain them?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is our task to find that out,” replied Holmes; “so now, if you
please, Mr. Holder, we will set off for Streatham together, and devote
an hour to glancing a little more closely into details.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> My friend insisted upon my accompanying them in their expedition, which
I was eager enough to do, for my curiosity and sympathy were deeply
stirred by the story to which we had listened. I confess that the guilt
of the banker’s son appeared to me to be as obvious as it did to his
unhappy father, but still I had such faith in Holmes’ judgment that I
felt that there must be some grounds for hope as long as he was
dissatisfied with the accepted explanation. He hardly spoke a word the
whole way out to the southern suburb, but sat with his chin upon his
breast and his hat drawn over his eyes, sunk in the deepest thought.
Our client appeared to have taken fresh heart at the little glimpse of
hope which had been presented to him, and he even broke into a
desultory chat with me over his business affairs. A short railway
journey and a shorter walk brought us to Fairbank, the modest residence
of the great financier. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Fairbank was a good-sized square house of white stone, standing back a
little from the road. A double carriage-sweep, with a snow-clad lawn,
stretched down in front to two large iron gates which closed the
entrance. On the right side was a small wooden thicket, which led into
a narrow path between two neat hedges stretching from the road to the
kitchen door, and forming the tradesmen’s entrance. On the left ran a
lane which led to the stables, and was not itself within the grounds at
all, being a public, though little used, thoroughfare. Holmes left us
standing at the door and walked slowly all round the house, across the
front, down the tradesmen’s path, and so round by the garden behind
into the stable lane. So long was he that Mr. Holder and I went into
the dining-room and waited by the fire until he should return. We were
sitting there in silence when the door opened and a young lady came in.
She was rather above the middle height, slim, with dark hair and eyes,
which seemed the darker against the absolute pallor of her skin. I do
not think that I have ever seen such deadly paleness in a woman’s face.
Her lips, too, were bloodless, but her eyes were flushed with crying.
As she swept silently into the room she impressed me with a greater
sense of grief than the banker had done in the morning, and it was the
more striking in her as she was evidently a woman of strong character,
with immense capacity for self-restraint. Disregarding my presence, she
went straight to her uncle and passed her hand over his head with a
sweet womanly caress. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But I am so sure that he is innocent. You know what woman’s instincts
are. I know that he has done no harm and that you will be sorry for
having acted so harshly.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, but he had only picked it up to look at it. Oh, do, do take my
word for it that he is innocent. Let the matter drop and say no more.
It is so dreadful to think of our dear Arthur in prison!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I shall never let it drop until the gems are found—never, Mary! Your
affection for Arthur blinds you as to the awful consequences to me. Far
from hushing the thing up, I have brought a gentleman down from London
to inquire more deeply into it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The stable lane?” She raised her dark eyebrows. “What can he hope to
find there? Ah! this, I suppose, is he. I trust, sir, that you will
succeed in proving, what I feel sure is the truth, that my cousin
Arthur is innocent of this crime.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I fully share your opinion, and I trust, with you, that we may prove
it,” returned Holmes, going back to the mat to knock the snow from his
shoes. “I believe I have the honour of addressing Miss Mary Holder.
Might I ask you a question or two?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You have a maid who has a sweetheart? I think that you remarked to
your uncle last night that she had been out to see him?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, and she was the girl who waited in the drawing-room, and who may
have heard uncle’s remarks about the coronet.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I see. You infer that she may have gone out to tell her sweetheart,
and that the two may have planned the robbery.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But what is the good of all these vague theories,” cried the banker
impatiently, “when I have told you that I saw Arthur with the coronet
in his hands?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Wait a little, Mr. Holder. We must come back to that. About this girl,
Miss Holder. You saw her return by the kitchen door, I presume?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes; when I went to see if the door was fastened for the night I met
her slipping in. I saw the man, too, in the gloom.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He stood,” said Holmes, “to the left of the door—that is to say,
farther up the path than is necessary to reach the door?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Something like fear sprang up in the young lady’s expressive black
eyes. “Why, you are like a magician,” said she. “How do you know that?”
She smiled, but there was no answering smile in Holmes’ thin, eager
face. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I should be very glad now to go upstairs,” said he. “I shall probably
wish to go over the outside of the house again. Perhaps I had better
take a look at the lower windows before I go up.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He walked swiftly round from one to the other, pausing only at the
large one which looked from the hall onto the stable lane. This he
opened and made a very careful examination of the sill with his
powerful magnifying lens. “Now we shall go upstairs,” said he at last. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The banker’s dressing-room was a plainly furnished little chamber, with
a grey carpet, a large bureau, and a long mirror. Holmes went to the
bureau first and looked hard at the lock. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is a noiseless lock,” said he. “It is no wonder that it did not
wake you. This case, I presume, contains the coronet. We must have a
look at it.” He opened the case, and taking out the diadem he laid it
upon the table. It was a magnificent specimen of the jeweller’s art,
and the thirty-six stones were the finest that I have ever seen. At one
side of the coronet was a cracked edge, where a corner holding three
gems had been torn away. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Now, Mr. Holder,” said Holmes, “here is the corner which corresponds
to that which has been so unfortunately lost. Might I beg that you will
break it off.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Then I will.” Holmes suddenly bent his strength upon it, but without
result. “I feel it give a little,” said he; “but, though I am
exceptionally strong in the fingers, it would take me all my time to
break it. An ordinary man could not do it. Now, what do you think would
happen if I did break it, Mr. Holder? There would be a noise like a
pistol shot. Do you tell me that all this happened within a few yards
of your bed and that you heard nothing of it?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Thank you. We have certainly been favoured with extraordinary luck
during this inquiry, and it will be entirely our own fault if we do not
succeed in clearing the matter up. With your permission, Mr. Holder, I
shall now continue my investigations outside.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He went alone, at his own request, for he explained that any
unnecessary footmarks might make his task more difficult. For an hour
or more he was at work, returning at last with his feet heavy with snow
and his features as inscrutable as ever. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I think that I have seen now all that there is to see, Mr. Holder,”
said he; “I can serve you best by returning to my rooms.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If you can call upon me at my Baker Street rooms to-morrow morning
between nine and ten I shall be happy to do what I can to make it
clearer. I understand that you give me _carte blanche_ to act for you,
provided only that I get back the gems, and that you place no limit on
the sum I may draw.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Very good. I shall look into the matter between this and then.
Good-bye; it is just possible that I may have to come over here again
before evening.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was obvious to me that my companion’s mind was now made up about the
case, although what his conclusions were was more than I could even
dimly imagine. Several times during our homeward journey I endeavoured
to sound him upon the point, but he always glided away to some other
topic, until at last I gave it over in despair. It was not yet three
when we found ourselves in our rooms once more. He hurried to his
chamber and was down again in a few minutes dressed as a common loafer.
With his collar turned up, his shiny, seedy coat, his red cravat, and
his worn boots, he was a perfect sample of the class. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I think that this should do,” said he, glancing into the glass above
the fireplace. “I only wish that you could come with me, Watson, but I
fear that it won’t do. I may be on the trail in this matter, or I may
be following a will-o’-the-wisp, but I shall soon know which it is. I
hope that I may be back in a few hours.” He cut a slice of beef from
the joint upon the sideboard, sandwiched it between two rounds of
bread, and thrusting this rude meal into his pocket he started off upon
his expedition. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I had just finished my tea when he returned, evidently in excellent
spirits, swinging an old elastic-sided boot in his hand. He chucked it
down into a corner and helped himself to a cup of tea. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, to the other side of the West End. It may be some time before I
get back. Don’t wait up for me in case I should be late.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, so so. Nothing to complain of. I have been out to Streatham since
I saw you last, but I did not call at the house. It is a very sweet
little problem, and I would not have missed it for a good deal.
However, I must not sit gossiping here, but must get these disreputable
clothes off and return to my highly respectable self.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I could see by his manner that he had stronger reasons for satisfaction
than his words alone would imply. His eyes twinkled, and there was even
a touch of colour upon his sallow cheeks. He hastened upstairs, and a
few minutes later I heard the slam of the hall door, which told me that
he was off once more upon his congenial hunt. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I waited until midnight, but there was no sign of his return, so I
retired to my room. It was no uncommon thing for him to be away for
days and nights on end when he was hot upon a scent, so that his
lateness caused me no surprise. I do not know at what hour he came in,
but when I came down to breakfast in the morning there he was with a
cup of coffee in one hand and the paper in the other, as fresh and trim
as possible. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You will excuse my beginning without you, Watson,” said he, “but you
remember that our client has rather an early appointment this morning.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Why, it is after nine now,” I answered. “I should not be surprised if
that were he. I thought I heard a ring.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was, indeed, our friend the financier. I was shocked by the change
which had come over him, for his face which was naturally of a broad
and massive mould, was now pinched and fallen in, while his hair seemed
to me at least a shade whiter. He entered with a weariness and lethargy
which was even more painful than his violence of the morning before,
and he dropped heavily into the armchair which I pushed forward for
him. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I do not know what I have done to be so severely tried,” said he.
“Only two days ago I was a happy and prosperous man, without a care in
the world. Now I am left to a lonely and dishonoured age. One sorrow
comes close upon the heels of another. My niece, Mary, has deserted
me.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes. Her bed this morning had not been slept in, her room was empty,
and a note for me lay upon the hall table. I had said to her last
night, in sorrow and not in anger, that if she had married my boy all
might have been well with him. Perhaps it was thoughtless of me to say
so. It is to that remark that she refers in this note: </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘MY DEAREST UNCLE,—I feel that I have brought trouble upon you,
    and that if I had acted differently this terrible misfortune might
    never have occurred. I cannot, with this thought in my mind, ever
    again be happy under your roof, and I feel that I must leave you
    forever. Do not worry about my future, for that is provided for;
    and, above all, do not search for me, for it will be fruitless
    labour and an ill-service to me. In life or in death, I am ever
    your loving, </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No, no, nothing of the kind. It is perhaps the best possible solution.
I trust, Mr. Holder, that you are nearing the end of your troubles.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That would be unnecessary. Three thousand will cover the matter. And
there is a little reward, I fancy. Have you your cheque-book? Here is a
pen. Better make it out for £ 4000.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> With a dazed face the banker made out the required check. Holmes walked
over to his desk, took out a little triangular piece of gold with three
gems in it, and threw it down upon the table. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The reaction of joy was as passionate as his grief had been, and he
hugged his recovered gems to his bosom. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No, the debt is not to me. You owe a very humble apology to that noble
lad, your son, who has carried himself in this matter as I should be
proud to see my own son do, should I ever chance to have one.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You are sure of it! Then let us hurry to him at once to let him know
that the truth is known.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He knows it already. When I had cleared it all up I had an interview
with him, and finding that he would not tell me the story, I told it to
him, on which he had to confess that I was right and to add the very
few details which were not yet quite clear to me. Your news of this
morning, however, may open his lips.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I will do so, and I will show you the steps by which I reached it. And
let me say to you, first, that which it is hardest for me to say and
for you to hear: there has been an understanding between Sir George
Burnwell and your niece Mary. They have now fled together.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is unfortunately more than possible; it is certain. Neither you nor
your son knew the true character of this man when you admitted him into
your family circle. He is one of the most dangerous men in England—a
ruined gambler, an absolutely desperate villain, a man without heart or
conscience. Your niece knew nothing of such men. When he breathed his
vows to her, as he had done to a hundred before her, she flattered
herself that she alone had touched his heart. The devil knows best what
he said, but at least she became his tool and was in the habit of
seeing him nearly every evening.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I will tell you, then, what occurred in your house last night. Your
niece, when you had, as she thought, gone to your room, slipped down
and talked to her lover through the window which leads into the stable
lane. His footmarks had pressed right through the snow, so long had he
stood there. She told him of the coronet. His wicked lust for gold
kindled at the news, and he bent her to his will. I have no doubt that
she loved you, but there are women in whom the love of a lover
extinguishes all other loves, and I think that she must have been one.
She had hardly listened to his instructions when she saw you coming
downstairs, on which she closed the window rapidly and told you about
one of the servants’ escapade with her wooden-legged lover, which was
all perfectly true. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Your boy, Arthur, went to bed after his interview with you but he
slept badly on account of his uneasiness about his club debts. In the
middle of the night he heard a soft tread pass his door, so he rose
and, looking out, was surprised to see his cousin walking very
stealthily along the passage until she disappeared into your
dressing-room. Petrified with astonishment, the lad slipped on some
clothes and waited there in the dark to see what would come of this
strange affair. Presently she emerged from the room again, and in the
light of the passage-lamp your son saw that she carried the precious
coronet in her hands. She passed down the stairs, and he, thrilling
with horror, ran along and slipped behind the curtain near your door,
whence he could see what passed in the hall beneath. He saw her
stealthily open the window, hand out the coronet to someone in the
gloom, and then closing it once more hurry back to her room, passing
quite close to where he stood hid behind the curtain. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “As long as she was on the scene he could not take any action without a
horrible exposure of the woman whom he loved. But the instant that she
was gone he realised how crushing a misfortune this would be for you,
and how all-important it was to set it right. He rushed down, just as
he was, in his bare feet, opened the window, sprang out into the snow,
and ran down the lane, where he could see a dark figure in the
moonlight. Sir George Burnwell tried to get away, but Arthur caught
him, and there was a struggle between them, your lad tugging at one
side of the coronet, and his opponent at the other. In the scuffle,
your son struck Sir George and cut him over the eye. Then something
suddenly snapped, and your son, finding that he had the coronet in his
hands, rushed back, closed the window, ascended to your room, and had
just observed that the coronet had been twisted in the struggle and was
endeavouring to straighten it when you appeared upon the scene.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You then roused his anger by calling him names at a moment when he
felt that he had deserved your warmest thanks. He could not explain the
true state of affairs without betraying one who certainly deserved
little enough consideration at his hands. He took the more chivalrous
view, however, and preserved her secret.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And that was why she shrieked and fainted when she saw the coronet,”
cried Mr. Holder. “Oh, my God! what a blind fool I have been! And his
asking to be allowed to go out for five minutes! The dear fellow wanted
to see if the missing piece were at the scene of the struggle. How
cruelly I have misjudged him!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “When I arrived at the house,” continued Holmes, “I at once went very
carefully round it to observe if there were any traces in the snow
which might help me. I knew that none had fallen since the evening
before, and also that there had been a strong frost to preserve
impressions. I passed along the tradesmen’s path, but found it all
trampled down and indistinguishable. Just beyond it, however, at the
far side of the kitchen door, a woman had stood and talked with a man,
whose round impressions on one side showed that he had a wooden leg. I
could even tell that they had been disturbed, for the woman had run
back swiftly to the door, as was shown by the deep toe and light heel
marks, while Wooden-leg had waited a little, and then had gone away. I
thought at the time that this might be the maid and her sweetheart, of
whom you had already spoken to me, and inquiry showed it was so. I
passed round the garden without seeing anything more than random
tracks, which I took to be the police; but when I got into the stable
lane a very long and complex story was written in the snow in front of
me. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “There was a double line of tracks of a booted man, and a second double
line which I saw with delight belonged to a man with naked feet. I was
at once convinced from what you had told me that the latter was your
son. The first had walked both ways, but the other had run swiftly, and
as his tread was marked in places over the depression of the boot, it
was obvious that he had passed after the other. I followed them up and
found they led to the hall window, where Boots had worn all the snow
away while waiting. Then I walked to the other end, which was a hundred
yards or more down the lane. I saw where Boots had faced round, where
the snow was cut up as though there had been a struggle, and, finally,
where a few drops of blood had fallen, to show me that I was not
mistaken. Boots had then run down the lane, and another little smudge
of blood showed that it was he who had been hurt. When he came to the
high road at the other end, I found that the pavement had been cleared,
so there was an end to that clue. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “On entering the house, however, I examined, as you remember, the sill
and framework of the hall window with my lens, and I could at once see
that someone had passed out. I could distinguish the outline of an
instep where the wet foot had been placed in coming in. I was then
beginning to be able to form an opinion as to what had occurred. A man
had waited outside the window; someone had brought the gems; the deed
had been overseen by your son; he had pursued the thief; had struggled
with him; they had each tugged at the coronet, their united strength
causing injuries which neither alone could have effected. He had
returned with the prize, but had left a fragment in the grasp of his
opponent. So far I was clear. The question now was, who was the man, and
who was it brought him the coronet? </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is an old maxim of mine that when you have excluded the impossible,
whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth. Now, I knew
that it was not you who had brought it down, so there only remained
your niece and the maids. But if it were the maids, why should your son
allow himself to be accused in their place? There could be no possible
reason. As he loved his cousin, however, there was an excellent
explanation why he should retain her secret—the more so as the secret
was a disgraceful one. When I remembered that you had seen her at that
window, and how she had fainted on seeing the coronet again, my
conjecture became a certainty. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And who could it be who was her confederate? A lover evidently, for
who else could outweigh the love and gratitude which she must feel to
you? I knew that you went out little, and that your circle of friends
was a very limited one. But among them was Sir George Burnwell. I had
heard of him before as being a man of evil reputation among women. It
must have been he who wore those boots and retained the missing gems.
Even though he knew that Arthur had discovered him, he might still
flatter himself that he was safe, for the lad could not say a word
without compromising his own family. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, your own good sense will suggest what measures I took next. I
went in the shape of a loafer to Sir George’s house, managed to pick up
an acquaintance with his valet, learned that his master had cut his
head the night before, and, finally, at the expense of six shillings,
made all sure by buying a pair of his cast-off shoes. With these I
journeyed down to Streatham and saw that they exactly fitted the
tracks.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Precisely. It was I. I found that I had my man, so I came home and
changed my clothes. It was a delicate part which I had to play then,
for I saw that a prosecution must be avoided to avert scandal, and I
knew that so astute a villain would see that our hands were tied in the
matter. I went and saw him. At first, of course, he denied everything.
But when I gave him every particular that had occurred, he tried to
bluster and took down a life-preserver from the wall. I knew my man,
however, and I clapped a pistol to his head before he could strike.
Then he became a little more reasonable. I told him that we would give
him a price for the stones he held—£ 1000 apiece. That brought out the
first signs of grief that he had shown. ‘Why, dash it all!’ said he,
‘I’ve let them go at six hundred for the three!’ I soon managed to get
the address of the receiver who had them, on promising him that there
would be no prosecution. Off I set to him, and after much chaffering I
got our stones at £ 1000 apiece. Then I looked in upon your son, told
him that all was right, and eventually got to my bed about two o’clock,
after what I may call a really hard day’s work.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “A day which has saved England from a great public scandal,” said the
banker, rising. “Sir, I cannot find words to thank you, but you shall
not find me ungrateful for what you have done. Your skill has indeed
exceeded all that I have heard of it. And now I must fly to my dear boy
to apologise to him for the wrong which I have done him. As to what you
tell me of poor Mary, it goes to my very heart. Not even your skill can
inform me where she is now.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I think that we may safely say,” returned Holmes, “that she is
wherever Sir George Burnwell is. It is equally certain, too, that
whatever her sins are, they will soon receive a more than sufficient
punishment.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “To the man who loves art for its own sake,” remarked Sherlock Holmes,
tossing aside the advertisement sheet of _The Daily Telegraph_, “it is
frequently in its least important and lowliest manifestations that the
keenest pleasure is to be derived. It is pleasant to me to observe,
Watson, that you have so far grasped this truth that in these little
records of our cases which you have been good enough to draw up, and, I
am bound to say, occasionally to embellish, you have given prominence
not so much to the many _causes célèbres_ and sensational trials in
which I have figured but rather to those incidents which may have been
trivial in themselves, but which have given room for those faculties of
deduction and of logical synthesis which I have made my special
province.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And yet,” said I, smiling, “I cannot quite hold myself absolved from
the charge of sensationalism which has been urged against my records.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You have erred, perhaps,” he observed, taking up a glowing cinder with
the tongs and lighting with it the long cherry-wood pipe which was wont
to replace his clay when he was in a disputatious rather than a
meditative mood—“you have erred perhaps in attempting to put colour and
life into each of your statements instead of confining yourself to the
task of placing upon record that severe reasoning from cause to effect
which is really the only notable feature about the thing.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It seems to me that I have done you full justice in the matter,” I
remarked with some coldness, for I was repelled by the egotism which I
had more than once observed to be a strong factor in my friend’s
singular character. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No, it is not selfishness or conceit,” said he, answering, as was his
wont, my thoughts rather than my words. “If I claim full justice for my
art, it is because it is an impersonal thing—a thing beyond myself.
Crime is common. Logic is rare. Therefore it is upon the logic rather
than upon the crime that you should dwell. You have degraded what
should have been a course of lectures into a series of tales.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was a cold morning of the early spring, and we sat after breakfast
on either side of a cheery fire in the old room at Baker Street. A
thick fog rolled down between the lines of dun-coloured houses, and the
opposing windows loomed like dark, shapeless blurs through the heavy
yellow wreaths. Our gas was lit and shone on the white cloth and
glimmer of china and metal, for the table had not been cleared yet.
Sherlock Holmes had been silent all the morning, dipping continuously
into the advertisement columns of a succession of papers until at last,
having apparently given up his search, he had emerged in no very sweet
temper to lecture me upon my literary shortcomings. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “At the same time,” he remarked after a pause, during which he had sat
puffing at his long pipe and gazing down into the fire, “you can hardly
be open to a charge of sensationalism, for out of these cases which you
have been so kind as to interest yourself in, a fair proportion do not
treat of crime, in its legal sense, at all. The small matter in which I
endeavoured to help the King of Bohemia, the singular experience of
Miss Mary Sutherland, the problem connected with the man with the
twisted lip, and the incident of the noble bachelor, were all matters
which are outside the pale of the law. But in avoiding the sensational,
I fear that you may have bordered on the trivial.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Pshaw, my dear fellow, what do the public, the great unobservant
public, who could hardly tell a weaver by his tooth or a compositor by
his left thumb, care about the finer shades of analysis and deduction!
But, indeed, if you are trivial, I cannot blame you, for the days of
the great cases are past. Man, or at least criminal man, has lost all
enterprise and originality. As to my own little practice, it seems to
be degenerating into an agency for recovering lost lead pencils and
giving advice to young ladies from boarding-schools. I think that I
have touched bottom at last, however. This note I had this morning
marks my zero-point, I fancy. Read it!” He tossed a crumpled letter
across to me. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “DEAR MR. HOLMES,—I am very anxious to consult you as to whether I
    should or should not accept a situation which has been offered to
    me as governess. I shall call at half-past ten to-morrow if I do
    not inconvenience you. Yours faithfully, </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It may turn out to be of more interest than you think. You remember
that the affair of the blue carbuncle, which appeared to be a mere whim
at first, developed into a serious investigation. It may be so in this
case, also.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, let us hope so. But our doubts will very soon be solved, for
here, unless I am much mistaken, is the person in question.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As he spoke the door opened and a young lady entered the room. She was
plainly but neatly dressed, with a bright, quick face, freckled like a
plover’s egg, and with the brisk manner of a woman who has had her own
way to make in the world. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You will excuse my troubling you, I am sure,” said she, as my
companion rose to greet her, “but I have had a very strange experience,
and as I have no parents or relations of any sort from whom I could ask
advice, I thought that perhaps you would be kind enough to tell me what
I should do.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I could see that Holmes was favourably impressed by the manner and
speech of his new client. He looked her over in his searching fashion,
and then composed himself, with his lids drooping and his finger-tips
together, to listen to her story. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have been a governess for five years,” said she, “in the family of
Colonel Spence Munro, but two months ago the colonel received an
appointment at Halifax, in Nova Scotia, and took his children over to
America with him, so that I found myself without a situation. I
advertised, and I answered advertisements, but without success. At last
the little money which I had saved began to run short, and I was at my
wit’s end as to what I should do. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “There is a well-known agency for governesses in the West End called
Westaway’s, and there I used to call about once a week in order to see
whether anything had turned up which might suit me. Westaway was the
name of the founder of the business, but it is really managed by Miss
Stoper. She sits in her own little office, and the ladies who are
seeking employment wait in an anteroom, and are then shown in one by
one, when she consults her ledgers and sees whether she has anything
which would suit them. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, when I called last week I was shown into the little office as
usual, but I found that Miss Stoper was not alone. A prodigiously stout
man with a very smiling face and a great heavy chin which rolled down
in fold upon fold over his throat sat at her elbow with a pair of
glasses on his nose, looking very earnestly at the ladies who entered.
As I came in he gave quite a jump in his chair and turned quickly to
Miss Stoper. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘That will do,’ said he; ‘I could not ask for anything better.
Capital! capital!’ He seemed quite enthusiastic and rubbed his hands
together in the most genial fashion. He was such a comfortable-looking
man that it was quite a pleasure to look at him. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Oh, tut, tut! sweating—rank sweating!’ he cried, throwing his fat
hands out into the air like a man who is in a boiling passion. ‘How
could anyone offer so pitiful a sum to a lady with such attractions and
accomplishments?’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Tut, tut!’ he cried. ‘This is all quite beside the question. The
point is, have you or have you not the bearing and deportment of a
lady? There it is in a nutshell. If you have not, you are not fitted
for the rearing of a child who may some day play a considerable part in
the history of the country. But if you have, why, then, how could any
gentleman ask you to condescend to accept anything under the three
figures? Your salary with me, madam, would commence at £ 100 a year.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You may imagine, Mr. Holmes, that to me, destitute as I was, such an
offer seemed almost too good to be true. The gentleman, however, seeing
perhaps the look of incredulity upon my face, opened a pocket-book and
took out a note. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘It is also my custom,’ said he, smiling in the most pleasant fashion
until his eyes were just two little shining slits amid the white
creases of his face, ‘to advance to my young ladies half their salary
beforehand, so that they may meet any little expenses of their journey
and their wardrobe.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It seemed to me that I had never met so fascinating and so thoughtful
a man. As I was already in debt to my tradesmen, the advance was a
great convenience, and yet there was something unnatural about the
whole transaction which made me wish to know a little more before I
quite committed myself. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Hampshire. Charming rural place. The Copper Beeches, five miles on
the far side of Winchester. It is the most lovely country, my dear
young lady, and the dearest old country-house.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘One child—one dear little romper just six years old. Oh, if you could
see him killing cockroaches with a slipper! Smack! smack! smack! Three
gone before you could wink!’ He leaned back in his chair and laughed
his eyes into his head again. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I was a little startled at the nature of the child’s amusement, but
the father’s laughter made me think that perhaps he was joking. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘No, no, not the sole, not the sole, my dear young lady,’ he cried.
‘Your duty would be, as I am sure your good sense would suggest, to
obey any little commands my wife might give, provided always that they
were such commands as a lady might with propriety obey. You see no
difficulty, heh?’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Quite so. In dress now, for example. We are faddy people, you
know—faddy but kind-hearted. If you were asked to wear any dress which
we might give you, you would not object to our little whim. Heh?’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I could hardly believe my ears. As you may observe, Mr. Holmes, my
hair is somewhat luxuriant, and of a rather peculiar tint of chestnut.
It has been considered artistic. I could not dream of sacrificing it in
this offhand fashion. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘I am afraid that that is quite impossible,’ said I. He had been
watching me eagerly out of his small eyes, and I could see a shadow
pass over his face as I spoke. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘I am afraid that it is quite essential,’ said he. ‘It is a little
fancy of my wife’s, and ladies’ fancies, you know, madam, ladies’
fancies must be consulted. And so you won’t cut your hair?’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Ah, very well; then that quite settles the matter. It is a pity,
because in other respects you would really have done very nicely. In
that case, Miss Stoper, I had best inspect a few more of your young
ladies.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The manageress had sat all this while busy with her papers without a
word to either of us, but she glanced at me now with so much annoyance
upon her face that I could not help suspecting that she had lost a
handsome commission through my refusal. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Well, really, it seems rather useless, since you refuse the most
excellent offers in this fashion,’ said she sharply. ‘You can hardly
expect us to exert ourselves to find another such opening for you.
Good-day to you, Miss Hunter.’ She struck a gong upon the table, and I
was shown out by the page. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, Mr. Holmes, when I got back to my lodgings and found little
enough in the cupboard, and two or three bills upon the table, I began
to ask myself whether I had not done a very foolish thing. After all,
if these people had strange fads and expected obedience on the most
extraordinary matters, they were at least ready to pay for their
eccentricity. Very few governesses in England are getting £ 100 a year.
Besides, what use was my hair to me? Many people are improved by
wearing it short and perhaps I should be among the number. Next day I
was inclined to think that I had made a mistake, and by the day after I
was sure of it. I had almost overcome my pride so far as to go back to
the agency and inquire whether the place was still open when I received
this letter from the gentleman himself. I have it here and I will read
it to you: </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘DEAR MISS HUNTER,—Miss Stoper has very kindly given me your
    address, and I write from here to ask you whether you have
    reconsidered your decision. My wife is very anxious that you should
    come, for she has been much attracted by my description of you. We
    are willing to give £ 30 a quarter, or £ 120 a year, so as to
    recompense you for any little inconvenience which our fads may
    cause you. They are not very exacting, after all. My wife is fond
    of a particular shade of electric blue and would like you to wear
    such a dress indoors in the morning. You need not, however, go to
    the expense of purchasing one, as we have one belonging to my dear
    daughter Alice (now in Philadelphia), which would, I should think,
    fit you very well. Then, as to sitting here or there, or amusing
    yourself in any manner indicated, that need cause you no
    inconvenience. As regards your hair, it is no doubt a pity,
    especially as I could not help remarking its beauty during our
    short interview, but I am afraid that I must remain firm upon this
    point, and I only hope that the increased salary may recompense you
    for the loss. Your duties, as far as the child is concerned, are
    very light. Now do try to come, and I shall meet you with the
    dog-cart at Winchester. Let me know your train. Yours faithfully, </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That is the letter which I have just received, Mr. Holmes, and my mind
is made up that I will accept it. I thought, however, that before
taking the final step I should like to submit the whole matter to your
consideration.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, there seems to me to be only one possible solution. Mr. Rucastle
seemed to be a very kind, good-natured man. Is it not possible that his
wife is a lunatic, that he desires to keep the matter quiet for fear
she should be taken to an asylum, and that he humours her fancies in
every way in order to prevent an outbreak?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That is a possible solution—in fact, as matters stand, it is the most
probable one. But in any case it does not seem to be a nice household
for a young lady.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, yes, of course the pay is good—too good. That is what makes me
uneasy. Why should they give you £ 120 a year, when they could have
their pick for £ 40? There must be some strong reason behind.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I thought that if I told you the circumstances you would understand
afterwards if I wanted your help. I should feel so much stronger if I
felt that you were at the back of me.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, you may carry that feeling away with you. I assure you that your
little problem promises to be the most interesting which has come my
way for some months. There is something distinctly novel about some of
the features. If you should find yourself in doubt or in danger—” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Holmes shook his head gravely. “It would cease to be a danger if we
could define it,” said he. “But at any time, day or night, a telegram
would bring me down to your help.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That is enough.” She rose briskly from her chair with the anxiety all
swept from her face. “I shall go down to Hampshire quite easy in my
mind now. I shall write to Mr. Rucastle at once, sacrifice my poor hair
to-night, and start for Winchester to-morrow.” With a few grateful
words to Holmes she bade us both good-night and bustled off upon her
way. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “At least,” said I as we heard her quick, firm steps descending the
stairs, “she seems to be a young lady who is very well able to take
care of herself.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And she would need to be,” said Holmes gravely. “I am much mistaken if
we do not hear from her before many days are past.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was not very long before my friend’s prediction was fulfilled. A
fortnight went by, during which I frequently found my thoughts turning
in her direction and wondering what strange side-alley of human
experience this lonely woman had strayed into. The unusual salary, the
curious conditions, the light duties, all pointed to something
abnormal, though whether a fad or a plot, or whether the man were a
philanthropist or a villain, it was quite beyond my powers to
determine. As to Holmes, I observed that he sat frequently for half an
hour on end, with knitted brows and an abstracted air, but he swept the
matter away with a wave of his hand when I mentioned it. “Data! data!
data!” he cried impatiently. “I can’t make bricks without clay.” And
yet he would always wind up by muttering that no sister of his should
ever have accepted such a situation. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The telegram which we eventually received came late one night just as I
was thinking of turning in and Holmes was settling down to one of those
all-night chemical researches which he frequently indulged in, when I
would leave him stooping over a retort and a test-tube at night and
find him in the same position when I came down to breakfast in the
morning. He opened the yellow envelope, and then, glancing at the
message, threw it across to me. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Please be at the Black Swan Hotel at Winchester at midday to-morrow,”
it said. “Do come! I am at my wit’s end. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That will do very nicely. Then perhaps I had better postpone my
analysis of the acetones, as we may need to be at our best in the
morning.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> By eleven o’clock the next day we were well upon our way to the old
English capital. Holmes had been buried in the morning papers all the
way down, but after we had passed the Hampshire border he threw them
down and began to admire the scenery. It was an ideal spring day, a
light blue sky, flecked with little fleecy white clouds drifting across
from west to east. The sun was shining very brightly, and yet there was
an exhilarating nip in the air, which set an edge to a man’s energy.
All over the countryside, away to the rolling hills around Aldershot,
the little red and grey roofs of the farm-steadings peeped out from
amid the light green of the new foliage. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Are they not fresh and beautiful?” I cried with all the enthusiasm of
a man fresh from the fogs of Baker Street. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Do you know, Watson,” said he, “that it is one of the curses of a mind
with a turn like mine that I must look at everything with reference to
my own special subject. You look at these scattered houses, and you are
impressed by their beauty. I look at them, and the only thought which
comes to me is a feeling of their isolation and of the impunity with
which crime may be committed there.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “They always fill me with a certain horror. It is my belief, Watson,
founded upon my experience, that the lowest and vilest alleys in London
do not present a more dreadful record of sin than does the smiling and
beautiful countryside.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But the reason is very obvious. The pressure of public opinion can do
in the town what the law cannot accomplish. There is no lane so vile
that the scream of a tortured child, or the thud of a drunkard’s blow,
does not beget sympathy and indignation among the neighbours, and then
the whole machinery of justice is ever so close that a word of
complaint can set it going, and there is but a step between the crime
and the dock. But look at these lonely houses, each in its own fields,
filled for the most part with poor ignorant folk who know little of the
law. Think of the deeds of hellish cruelty, the hidden wickedness which
may go on, year in, year out, in such places, and none the wiser. Had
this lady who appeals to us for help gone to live in Winchester, I
should never have had a fear for her. It is the five miles of country
which makes the danger. Still, it is clear that she is not personally
threatened.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have devised seven separate explanations, each of which would cover
the facts as far as we know them. But which of these is correct can
only be determined by the fresh information which we shall no doubt
find waiting for us. Well, there is the tower of the cathedral, and we
shall soon learn all that Miss Hunter has to tell.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Black Swan is an inn of repute in the High Street, at no distance
from the station, and there we found the young lady waiting for us. She
had engaged a sitting-room, and our lunch awaited us upon the table. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am so delighted that you have come,” she said earnestly. “It is so
very kind of you both; but indeed I do not know what I should do. Your
advice will be altogether invaluable to me.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I will do so, and I must be quick, for I have promised Mr. Rucastle to
be back before three. I got his leave to come into town this morning,
though he little knew for what purpose.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Let us have everything in its due order.” Holmes thrust his long thin
legs out towards the fire and composed himself to listen. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “In the first place, I may say that I have met, on the whole, with no
actual ill-treatment from Mr. and Mrs. Rucastle. It is only fair to
them to say that. But I cannot understand them, and I am not easy in my
mind about them.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Their reasons for their conduct. But you shall have it all just as it
occurred. When I came down, Mr. Rucastle met me here and drove me in
his dog-cart to the Copper Beeches. It is, as he said, beautifully
situated, but it is not beautiful in itself, for it is a large square
block of a house, whitewashed, but all stained and streaked with damp
and bad weather. There are grounds round it, woods on three sides, and
on the fourth a field which slopes down to the Southampton high road,
which curves past about a hundred yards from the front door. This
ground in front belongs to the house, but the woods all round are part
of Lord Southerton’s preserves. A clump of copper beeches immediately
in front of the hall door has given its name to the place. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I was driven over by my employer, who was as amiable as ever, and was
introduced by him that evening to his wife and the child. There was no
truth, Mr. Holmes, in the conjecture which seemed to us to be probable
in your rooms at Baker Street. Mrs. Rucastle is not mad. I found her to
be a silent, pale-faced woman, much younger than her husband, not more
than thirty, I should think, while he can hardly be less than
forty-five. From their conversation I have gathered that they have been
married about seven years, that he was a widower, and that his only
child by the first wife was the daughter who has gone to Philadelphia.
Mr. Rucastle told me in private that the reason why she had left them
was that she had an unreasoning aversion to her stepmother. As the
daughter could not have been less than twenty, I can quite imagine that
her position must have been uncomfortable with her father’s young wife. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Mrs. Rucastle seemed to me to be colourless in mind as well as in
feature. She impressed me neither favourably nor the reverse. She was a
nonentity. It was easy to see that she was passionately devoted both to
her husband and to her little son. Her light grey eyes wandered
continually from one to the other, noting every little want and
forestalling it if possible. He was kind to her also in his bluff,
boisterous fashion, and on the whole they seemed to be a happy couple.
And yet she had some secret sorrow, this woman. She would often be lost
in deep thought, with the saddest look upon her face. More than once I
have surprised her in tears. I have thought sometimes that it was the
disposition of her child which weighed upon her mind, for I have never
met so utterly spoiled and so ill-natured a little creature. He is
small for his age, with a head which is quite disproportionately large.
His whole life appears to be spent in an alternation between savage
fits of passion and gloomy intervals of sulking. Giving pain to any
creature weaker than himself seems to be his one idea of amusement, and
he shows quite remarkable talent in planning the capture of mice,
little birds, and insects. But I would rather not talk about the
creature, Mr. Holmes, and, indeed, he has little to do with my story.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I shall try not to miss anything of importance. The one unpleasant
thing about the house, which struck me at once, was the appearance and
conduct of the servants. There are only two, a man and his wife.
Toller, for that is his name, is a rough, uncouth man, with grizzled
hair and whiskers, and a perpetual smell of drink. Twice since I have
been with them he has been quite drunk, and yet Mr. Rucastle seemed to
take no notice of it. His wife is a very tall and strong woman with a
sour face, as silent as Mrs. Rucastle and much less amiable. They are a
most unpleasant couple, but fortunately I spend most of my time in the
nursery and my own room, which are next to each other in one corner of
the building. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “For two days after my arrival at the Copper Beeches my life was very
quiet; on the third, Mrs. Rucastle came down just after breakfast and
whispered something to her husband. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Oh, yes,’ said he, turning to me, ‘we are very much obliged to you,
Miss Hunter, for falling in with our whims so far as to cut your hair.
I assure you that it has not detracted in the tiniest iota from your
appearance. We shall now see how the electric-blue dress will become
you. You will find it laid out upon the bed in your room, and if you
would be so good as to put it on we should both be extremely obliged.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The dress which I found waiting for me was of a peculiar shade of
blue. It was of excellent material, a sort of beige, but it bore
unmistakable signs of having been worn before. It could not have been a
better fit if I had been measured for it. Both Mr. and Mrs. Rucastle
expressed a delight at the look of it, which seemed quite exaggerated
in its vehemence. They were waiting for me in the drawing-room, which
is a very large room, stretching along the entire front of the house,
with three long windows reaching down to the floor. A chair had been
placed close to the central window, with its back turned towards it. In
this I was asked to sit, and then Mr. Rucastle, walking up and down on
the other side of the room, began to tell me a series of the funniest
stories that I have ever listened to. You cannot imagine how comical he
was, and I laughed until I was quite weary. Mrs. Rucastle, however, who
has evidently no sense of humour, never so much as smiled, but sat with
her hands in her lap, and a sad, anxious look upon her face. After an
hour or so, Mr. Rucastle suddenly remarked that it was time to commence
the duties of the day, and that I might change my dress and go to
little Edward in the nursery. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Two days later this same performance was gone through under exactly
similar circumstances. Again I changed my dress, again I sat in the
window, and again I laughed very heartily at the funny stories of which
my employer had an immense _répertoire_, and which he told inimitably.
Then he handed me a yellow-backed novel, and moving my chair a little
sideways, that my own shadow might not fall upon the page, he begged me
to read aloud to him. I read for about ten minutes, beginning in the
heart of a chapter, and then suddenly, in the middle of a sentence, he
ordered me to cease and to change my dress. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You can easily imagine, Mr. Holmes, how curious I became as to what
the meaning of this extraordinary performance could possibly be. They
were always very careful, I observed, to turn my face away from the
window, so that I became consumed with the desire to see what was going
on behind my back. At first it seemed to be impossible, but I soon
devised a means. My hand-mirror had been broken, so a happy thought
seized me, and I concealed a piece of the glass in my handkerchief. On
the next occasion, in the midst of my laughter, I put my handkerchief
up to my eyes, and was able with a little management to see all that
there was behind me. I confess that I was disappointed. There was
nothing. At least that was my first impression. At the second glance,
however, I perceived that there was a man standing in the Southampton
Road, a small bearded man in a grey suit, who seemed to be looking in
my direction. The road is an important highway, and there are usually
people there. This man, however, was leaning against the railings which
bordered our field and was looking earnestly up. I lowered my
handkerchief and glanced at Mrs. Rucastle to find her eyes fixed upon
me with a most searching gaze. She said nothing, but I am convinced
that she had divined that I had a mirror in my hand and had seen what
was behind me. She rose at once. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I did as I was told, and at the same instant Mrs. Rucastle drew down
the blind. That was a week ago, and from that time I have not sat again
in the window, nor have I worn the blue dress, nor seen the man in the
road.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You will find it rather disconnected, I fear, and there may prove to
be little relation between the different incidents of which I speak. On
the very first day that I was at the Copper Beeches, Mr. Rucastle took
me to a small outhouse which stands near the kitchen door. As we
approached it I heard the sharp rattling of a chain, and the sound as
of a large animal moving about. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Don’t be frightened,’ said my employer, laughing at the start which I
had given. ‘It’s only Carlo, my mastiff. I call him mine, but really
old Toller, my groom, is the only man who can do anything with him. We
feed him once a day, and not too much then, so that he is always as
keen as mustard. Toller lets him loose every night, and God help the
trespasser whom he lays his fangs upon. For goodness’ sake don’t you
ever on any pretext set your foot over the threshold at night, for it’s
as much as your life is worth.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The warning was no idle one, for two nights later I happened to look
out of my bedroom window about two o’clock in the morning. It was a
beautiful moonlight night, and the lawn in front of the house was
silvered over and almost as bright as day. I was standing, rapt in the
peaceful beauty of the scene, when I was aware that something was
moving under the shadow of the copper beeches. As it emerged into the
moonshine I saw what it was. It was a giant dog, as large as a calf,
tawny tinted, with hanging jowl, black muzzle, and huge projecting
bones. It walked slowly across the lawn and vanished into the shadow
upon the other side. That dreadful sentinel sent a chill to my heart
which I do not think that any burglar could have done. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And now I have a very strange experience to tell you. I had, as you
know, cut off my hair in London, and I had placed it in a great coil at
the bottom of my trunk. One evening, after the child was in bed, I
began to amuse myself by examining the furniture of my room and by
rearranging my own little things. There was an old chest of drawers in
the room, the two upper ones empty and open, the lower one locked. I
had filled the first two with my linen, and as I had still much to pack
away I was naturally annoyed at not having the use of the third drawer.
It struck me that it might have been fastened by a mere oversight, so I
took out my bunch of keys and tried to open it. The very first key
fitted to perfection, and I drew the drawer open. There was only one
thing in it, but I am sure that you would never guess what it was. It
was my coil of hair. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I took it up and examined it. It was of the same peculiar tint, and
the same thickness. But then the impossibility of the thing obtruded
itself upon me. How could my hair have been locked in the drawer? With
trembling hands I undid my trunk, turned out the contents, and drew
from the bottom my own hair. I laid the two tresses together, and I
assure you that they were identical. Was it not extraordinary? Puzzle
as I would, I could make nothing at all of what it meant. I returned
the strange hair to the drawer, and I said nothing of the matter to the
Rucastles as I felt that I had put myself in the wrong by opening a
drawer which they had locked. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am naturally observant, as you may have remarked, Mr. Holmes, and I
soon had a pretty good plan of the whole house in my head. There was
one wing, however, which appeared not to be inhabited at all. A door
which faced that which led into the quarters of the Tollers opened into
this suite, but it was invariably locked. One day, however, as I
ascended the stair, I met Mr. Rucastle coming out through this door,
his keys in his hand, and a look on his face which made him a very
different person to the round, jovial man to whom I was accustomed. His
cheeks were red, his brow was all crinkled with anger, and the veins
stood out at his temples with passion. He locked the door and hurried
past me without a word or a look. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This aroused my curiosity, so when I went out for a walk in the
grounds with my charge, I strolled round to the side from which I could
see the windows of this part of the house. There were four of them in a
row, three of which were simply dirty, while the fourth was shuttered
up. They were evidently all deserted. As I strolled up and down,
glancing at them occasionally, Mr. Rucastle came out to me, looking as
merry and jovial as ever. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Ah!’ said he, ‘you must not think me rude if I passed you without a
word, my dear young lady. I was preoccupied with business matters.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I assured him that I was not offended. ‘By the way,’ said I, ‘you seem
to have quite a suite of spare rooms up there, and one of them has the
shutters up.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Photography is one of my hobbies,’ said he. ‘I have made my dark room
up there. But, dear me! what an observant young lady we have come upon.
Who would have believed it? Who would have ever believed it?’ He spoke
in a jesting tone, but there was no jest in his eyes as he looked at
me. I read suspicion there and annoyance, but no jest. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, Mr. Holmes, from the moment that I understood that there was
something about that suite of rooms which I was not to know, I was all
on fire to go over them. It was not mere curiosity, though I have my
share of that. It was more a feeling of duty—a feeling that some good
might come from my penetrating to this place. They talk of woman’s
instinct; perhaps it was woman’s instinct which gave me that feeling.
At any rate, it was there, and I was keenly on the lookout for any
chance to pass the forbidden door. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It was only yesterday that the chance came. I may tell you that,
besides Mr. Rucastle, both Toller and his wife find something to do in
these deserted rooms, and I once saw him carrying a large black linen
bag with him through the door. Recently he has been drinking hard, and
yesterday evening he was very drunk; and when I came upstairs there was
the key in the door. I have no doubt at all that he had left it there.
Mr. and Mrs. Rucastle were both downstairs, and the child was with
them, so that I had an admirable opportunity. I turned the key gently
in the lock, opened the door, and slipped through. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “There was a little passage in front of me, unpapered and uncarpeted,
which turned at a right angle at the farther end. Round this corner
were three doors in a line, the first and third of which were open.
They each led into an empty room, dusty and cheerless, with two windows
in the one and one in the other, so thick with dirt that the evening
light glimmered dimly through them. The centre door was closed, and
across the outside of it had been fastened one of the broad bars of an
iron bed, padlocked at one end to a ring in the wall, and fastened at
the other with stout cord. The door itself was locked as well, and the
key was not there. This barricaded door corresponded clearly with the
shuttered window outside, and yet I could see by the glimmer from
beneath it that the room was not in darkness. Evidently there was a
skylight which let in light from above. As I stood in the passage
gazing at the sinister door and wondering what secret it might veil, I
suddenly heard the sound of steps within the room and saw a shadow pass
backward and forward against the little slit of dim light which shone
out from under the door. A mad, unreasoning terror rose up in me at the
sight, Mr. Holmes. My overstrung nerves failed me suddenly, and I
turned and ran—ran as though some dreadful hand were behind me
clutching at the skirt of my dress. I rushed down the passage, through
the door, and straight into the arms of Mr. Rucastle, who was waiting
outside. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘My dear young lady! my dear young lady!’—you cannot think how
caressing and soothing his manner was—‘and what has frightened you, my
dear young lady?’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘I was foolish enough to go into the empty wing,’ I answered. ‘But it
is so lonely and eerie in this dim light that I was frightened and ran
out again. Oh, it is so dreadfully still in there!’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘It is to keep people out who have no business there. Do you see?’ He
was still smiling in the most amiable manner. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘Well, then, you know now. And if you ever put your foot over that
threshold again’—here in an instant the smile hardened into a grin of
rage, and he glared down at me with the face of a demon—‘I’ll throw you
to the mastiff.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I was so terrified that I do not know what I did. I suppose that I
must have rushed past him into my room. I remember nothing until I
found myself lying on my bed trembling all over. Then I thought of you,
Mr. Holmes. I could not live there longer without some advice. I was
frightened of the house, of the man, of the woman, of the servants,
even of the child. They were all horrible to me. If I could only bring
you down all would be well. Of course I might have fled from the house,
but my curiosity was almost as strong as my fears. My mind was soon
made up. I would send you a wire. I put on my hat and cloak, went down
to the office, which is about half a mile from the house, and then
returned, feeling very much easier. A horrible doubt came into my mind
as I approached the door lest the dog might be loose, but I remembered
that Toller had drunk himself into a state of insensibility that
evening, and I knew that he was the only one in the household who had
any influence with the savage creature, or who would venture to set him
free. I slipped in in safety and lay awake half the night in my joy at
the thought of seeing you. I had no difficulty in getting leave to come
into Winchester this morning, but I must be back before three o’clock,
for Mr. and Mrs. Rucastle are going on a visit, and will be away all
the evening, so that I must look after the child. Now I have told you
all my adventures, Mr. Holmes, and I should be very glad if you could
tell me what it all means, and, above all, what I should do.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Holmes and I had listened spellbound to this extraordinary story. My
friend rose now and paced up and down the room, his hands in his
pockets, and an expression of the most profound gravity upon his face. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You seem to me to have acted all through this matter like a very brave
and sensible girl, Miss Hunter. Do you think that you could perform one
more feat? I should not ask it of you if I did not think you a quite
exceptional woman.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “We shall be at the Copper Beeches by seven o’clock, my friend and I.
The Rucastles will be gone by that time, and Toller will, we hope, be
incapable. There only remains Mrs. Toller, who might give the alarm. If
you could send her into the cellar on some errand, and then turn the
key upon her, you would facilitate matters immensely.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Excellent! We shall then look thoroughly into the affair. Of course
there is only one feasible explanation. You have been brought there to
personate someone, and the real person is imprisoned in this chamber.
That is obvious. As to who this prisoner is, I have no doubt that it is
the daughter, Miss Alice Rucastle, if I remember right, who was said to
have gone to America. You were chosen, doubtless, as resembling her in
height, figure, and the colour of your hair. Hers had been cut off,
very possibly in some illness through which she has passed, and so, of
course, yours had to be sacrificed also. By a curious chance you came
upon her tresses. The man in the road was undoubtedly some friend of
hers—possibly her _fiancé_—and no doubt, as you wore the girl’s dress
and were so like her, he was convinced from your laughter, whenever he
saw you, and afterwards from your gesture, that Miss Rucastle was
perfectly happy, and that she no longer desired his attentions. The dog
is let loose at night to prevent him from endeavouring to communicate
with her. So much is fairly clear. The most serious point in the case
is the disposition of the child.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My dear Watson, you as a medical man are continually gaining light as
to the tendencies of a child by the study of the parents. Don’t you see
that the converse is equally valid. I have frequently gained my first
real insight into the character of parents by studying their children.
This child’s disposition is abnormally cruel, merely for cruelty’s
sake, and whether he derives this from his smiling father, as I should
suspect, or from his mother, it bodes evil for the poor girl who is in
their power.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am sure that you are right, Mr. Holmes,” cried our client. “A
thousand things come back to me which make me certain that you have hit
it. Oh, let us lose not an instant in bringing help to this poor
creature.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “We must be circumspect, for we are dealing with a very cunning man. We
can do nothing until seven o’clock. At that hour we shall be with you,
and it will not be long before we solve the mystery.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We were as good as our word, for it was just seven when we reached the
Copper Beeches, having put up our trap at a wayside public-house. The
group of trees, with their dark leaves shining like burnished metal in
the light of the setting sun, were sufficient to mark the house even
had Miss Hunter not been standing smiling on the door-step. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> A loud thudding noise came from somewhere downstairs. “That is Mrs.
Toller in the cellar,” said she. “Her husband lies snoring on the
kitchen rug. Here are his keys, which are the duplicates of Mr.
Rucastle’s.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You have done well indeed!” cried Holmes with enthusiasm. “Now lead
the way, and we shall soon see the end of this black business.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> We passed up the stair, unlocked the door, followed on down a passage,
and found ourselves in front of the barricade which Miss Hunter had
described. Holmes cut the cord and removed the transverse bar. Then he
tried the various keys in the lock, but without success. No sound came
from within, and at the silence Holmes’ face clouded over. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I trust that we are not too late,” said he. “I think, Miss Hunter,
that we had better go in without you. Now, Watson, put your shoulder to
it, and we shall see whether we cannot make our way in.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was an old rickety door and gave at once before our united strength.
Together we rushed into the room. It was empty. There was no furniture
save a little pallet bed, a small table, and a basketful of linen. The
skylight above was open, and the prisoner gone. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “There has been some villainy here,” said Holmes; “this beauty has
guessed Miss Hunter’s intentions and has carried his victim off.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Through the skylight. We shall soon see how he managed it.” He swung
himself up onto the roof. “Ah, yes,” he cried, “here’s the end of a
long light ladder against the eaves. That is how he did it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He has come back and done it. I tell you that he is a clever and
dangerous man. I should not be very much surprised if this were he
whose step I hear now upon the stair. I think, Watson, that it would be
as well for you to have your pistol ready.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The words were hardly out of his mouth before a man appeared at the
door of the room, a very fat and burly man, with a heavy stick in his
hand. Miss Hunter screamed and shrunk against the wall at the sight of
him, but Sherlock Holmes sprang forward and confronted him. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is for me to ask you that,” he shrieked, “you thieves! Spies and
thieves! I have caught you, have I? You are in my power. I’ll serve
you!” He turned and clattered down the stairs as hard as he could go. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Better close the front door,” cried Holmes, and we all rushed down the
stairs together. We had hardly reached the hall when we heard the
baying of a hound, and then a scream of agony, with a horrible worrying
sound which it was dreadful to listen to. An elderly man with a red
face and shaking limbs came staggering out at a side door. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My God!” he cried. “Someone has loosed the dog. It’s not been fed for
two days. Quick, quick, or it’ll be too late!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Holmes and I rushed out and round the angle of the house, with Toller
hurrying behind us. There was the huge famished brute, its black muzzle
buried in Rucastle’s throat, while he writhed and screamed upon the
ground. Running up, I blew its brains out, and it fell over with its
keen white teeth still meeting in the great creases of his neck. With
much labour we separated them and carried him, living but horribly
mangled, into the house. We laid him upon the drawing-room sofa, and
having dispatched the sobered Toller to bear the news to his wife, I
did what I could to relieve his pain. We were all assembled round him
when the door opened, and a tall, gaunt woman entered the room. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, miss. Mr. Rucastle let me out when he came back before he went up
to you. Ah, miss, it is a pity you didn’t let me know what you were
planning, for I would have told you that your pains were wasted.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Ha!” said Holmes, looking keenly at her. “It is clear that Mrs. Toller
knows more about this matter than anyone else.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Then, pray, sit down, and let us hear it for there are several points
on which I must confess that I am still in the dark.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I will soon make it clear to you,” said she; “and I’d have done so
before now if I could ha’ got out from the cellar. If there’s
police-court business over this, you’ll remember that I was the one
that stood your friend, and that I was Miss Alice’s friend too. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “She was never happy at home, Miss Alice wasn’t, from the time that her
father married again. She was slighted like and had no say in anything,
but it never really became bad for her until after she met Mr. Fowler
at a friend’s house. As well as I could learn, Miss Alice had rights of
her own by will, but she was so quiet and patient, she was, that she
never said a word about them but just left everything in Mr. Rucastle’s
hands. He knew he was safe with her; but when there was a chance of a
husband coming forward, who would ask for all that the law would give
him, then her father thought it time to put a stop on it. He wanted her
to sign a paper, so that whether she married or not, he could use her
money. When she wouldn’t do it, he kept on worrying her until she got
brain-fever, and for six weeks was at death’s door. Then she got better
at last, all worn to a shadow, and with her beautiful hair cut off; but
that didn’t make no change in her young man, and he stuck to her as
true as man could be.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Ah,” said Holmes, “I think that what you have been good enough to tell
us makes the matter fairly clear, and that I can deduce all that
remains. Mr. Rucastle then, I presume, took to this system of
imprisonment?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But Mr. Fowler being a persevering man, as a good seaman should be,
blockaded the house, and having met you succeeded by certain arguments,
metallic or otherwise, in convincing you that your interests were the
same as his.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And in this way he managed that your good man should have no want of
drink, and that a ladder should be ready at the moment when your master
had gone out.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am sure we owe you an apology, Mrs. Toller,” said Holmes, “for you
have certainly cleared up everything which puzzled us. And here comes
the country surgeon and Mrs. Rucastle, so I think, Watson, that we had
best escort Miss Hunter back to Winchester, as it seems to me that our
_locus standi_ now is rather a questionable one.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> And thus was solved the mystery of the sinister house with the copper
beeches in front of the door. Mr. Rucastle survived, but was always a
broken man, kept alive solely through the care of his devoted wife.
They still live with their old servants, who probably know so much of
Rucastle’s past life that he finds it difficult to part from them. Mr.
Fowler and Miss Rucastle were married, by special license, in
Southampton the day after their flight, and he is now the holder of a
government appointment in the island of Mauritius. As to Miss Violet
Hunter, my friend Holmes, rather to my disappointment, manifested no
further interest in her when once she had ceased to be the centre of
one of his problems, and she is now the head of a private school at
Walsall, where I believe that she has met with considerable success. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> 1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> 1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> 1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> 1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> 1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed: </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> 1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> 1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> 1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> 1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> 1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> 1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> 1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that: </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> 1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> 1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> 1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> 1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> 1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> 1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> 1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
</RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE>
Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister on the
bank, and of having nothing to do: once or twice she had peeped into
the book her sister was reading, but it had no pictures or
conversations in it, “and what is the use of a book,” thought Alice
“without pictures or conversations?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could, for the
hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether the pleasure of
making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble of getting up and
picking the daisies, when suddenly a White Rabbit with pink eyes ran
close by her. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> There was nothing so _very_ remarkable in that; nor did Alice think it
so _very_ much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to itself, “Oh
dear! Oh dear! I shall be late!” (when she thought it over afterwards,
it occurred to her that she ought to have wondered at this, but at the
time it all seemed quite natural); but when the Rabbit actually _took a
watch out of its waistcoat-pocket_, and looked at it, and then hurried
on, Alice started to her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she
had never before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a
watch to take out of it, and burning with curiosity, she ran across the
field after it, and fortunately was just in time to see it pop down a
large rabbit-hole under the hedge. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In another moment down went Alice after it, never once considering how
in the world she was to get out again. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way, and then
dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a moment to think
about stopping herself before she found herself falling down a very
deep well. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she had
plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to wonder what
was going to happen next. First, she tried to look down and make out
what she was coming to, but it was too dark to see anything; then she
looked at the sides of the well, and noticed that they were filled with
cupboards and book-shelves; here and there she saw maps and pictures
hung upon pegs. She took down a jar from one of the shelves as she
passed; it was labelled “ORANGE MARMALADE”, but to her great
disappointment it was empty: she did not like to drop the jar for fear
of killing somebody underneath, so managed to put it into one of the
cupboards as she fell past it. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well!” thought Alice to herself, “after such a fall as this, I shall
think nothing of tumbling down stairs! How brave they’ll all think me
at home! Why, I wouldn’t say anything about it, even if I fell off the
top of the house!” (Which was very likely true.) </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Down, down, down. Would the fall _never_ come to an end? “I wonder how
many miles I’ve fallen by this time?” she said aloud. “I must be
getting somewhere near the centre of the earth. Let me see: that would
be four thousand miles down, I think—” (for, you see, Alice had learnt
several things of this sort in her lessons in the schoolroom, and
though this was not a _very_ good opportunity for showing off her
knowledge, as there was no one to listen to her, still it was good
practice to say it over) “—yes, that’s about the right distance—but
then I wonder what Latitude or Longitude I’ve got to?” (Alice had no
idea what Latitude was, or Longitude either, but thought they were nice
grand words to say.) </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Presently she began again. “I wonder if I shall fall right _through_
the earth! How funny it’ll seem to come out among the people that walk
with their heads downward! The Antipathies, I think—” (she was rather
glad there _was_ no one listening, this time, as it didn’t sound at all
the right word) “—but I shall have to ask them what the name of the
country is, you know. Please, Ma’am, is this New Zealand or Australia?”
(and she tried to curtsey as she spoke—fancy _curtseying_ as you’re
falling through the air! Do you think you could manage it?) “And what
an ignorant little girl she’ll think me for asking! No, it’ll never do
to ask: perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Down, down, down. There was nothing else to do, so Alice soon began
talking again. “Dinah’ll miss me very much to-night, I should think!”
(Dinah was the cat.) “I hope they’ll remember her saucer of milk at
tea-time. Dinah my dear! I wish you were down here with me! There are
no mice in the air, I’m afraid, but you might catch a bat, and that’s
very like a mouse, you know. But do cats eat bats, I wonder?” And here
Alice began to get rather sleepy, and went on saying to herself, in a
dreamy sort of way, “Do cats eat bats? Do cats eat bats?” and
sometimes, “Do bats eat cats?” for, you see, as she couldn’t answer
either question, it didn’t much matter which way she put it. She felt
that she was dozing off, and had just begun to dream that she was
walking hand in hand with Dinah, and saying to her very earnestly,
“Now, Dinah, tell me the truth: did you ever eat a bat?” when suddenly,
thump! thump! down she came upon a heap of sticks and dry leaves, and
the fall was over. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a moment:
she looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before her was another
long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in sight, hurrying down
it. There was not a moment to be lost: away went Alice like the wind,
and was just in time to hear it say, as it turned a corner, “Oh my ears
and whiskers, how late it’s getting!” She was close behind it when she
turned the corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen: she found
herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps hanging
from the roof. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked; and when
Alice had been all the way down one side and up the other, trying every
door, she walked sadly down the middle, wondering how she was ever to
get out again. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table, all made of solid
glass; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key, and Alice’s
first thought was that it might belong to one of the doors of the hall;
but, alas! either the locks were too large, or the key was too small,
but at any rate it would not open any of them. However, on the second
time round, she came upon a low curtain she had not noticed before, and
behind it was a little door about fifteen inches high: she tried the
little golden key in the lock, and to her great delight it fitted! </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small passage, not
much larger than a rat-hole: she knelt down and looked along the
passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw. How she longed to get
out of that dark hall, and wander about among those beds of bright
flowers and those cool fountains, but she could not even get her head
through the doorway; “and even if my head would go through,” thought
poor Alice, “it would be of very little use without my shoulders. Oh,
how I wish I could shut up like a telescope! I think I could, if I only
knew how to begin.” For, you see, so many out-of-the-way things had
happened lately, that Alice had begun to think that very few things
indeed were really impossible. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so she went
back to the table, half hoping she might find another key on it, or at
any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like telescopes: this
time she found a little bottle on it, (“which certainly was not here
before,” said Alice,) and round the neck of the bottle was a paper
label, with the words “DRINK ME,” beautifully printed on it in large
letters. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was all very well to say “Drink me,” but the wise little Alice was
not going to do _that_ in a hurry. “No, I’ll look first,” she said,
“and see whether it’s marked ‘_poison_’ or not”; for she had read
several nice little histories about children who had got burnt, and
eaten up by wild beasts and other unpleasant things, all because they
_would_ not remember the simple rules their friends had taught them:
such as, that a red-hot poker will burn you if you hold it too long;
and that if you cut your finger _very_ deeply with a knife, it usually
bleeds; and she had never forgotten that, if you drink much from a
bottle marked “poison,” it is almost certain to disagree with you,
sooner or later. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> However, this bottle was _not_ marked “poison,” so Alice ventured to
taste it, and finding it very nice, (it had, in fact, a sort of mixed
flavour of cherry-tart, custard, pine-apple, roast turkey, toffee, and
hot buttered toast,) she very soon finished it off. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> And so it was indeed: she was now only ten inches high, and her face
brightened up at the thought that she was now the right size for going
through the little door into that lovely garden. First, however, she
waited for a few minutes to see if she was going to shrink any further:
she felt a little nervous about this; “for it might end, you know,”
said Alice to herself, “in my going out altogether, like a candle. I
wonder what I should be like then?” And she tried to fancy what the
flame of a candle is like after the candle is blown out, for she could
not remember ever having seen such a thing. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided on going
into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Alice! when she got to the
door, she found she had forgotten the little golden key, and when she
went back to the table for it, she found she could not possibly reach
it: she could see it quite plainly through the glass, and she tried her
best to climb up one of the legs of the table, but it was too slippery;
and when she had tired herself out with trying, the poor little thing
sat down and cried. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Come, there’s no use in crying like that!” said Alice to herself,
rather sharply; “I advise you to leave off this minute!” She generally
gave herself very good advice, (though she very seldom followed it),
and sometimes she scolded herself so severely as to bring tears into
her eyes; and once she remembered trying to box her own ears for having
cheated herself in a game of croquet she was playing against herself,
for this curious child was very fond of pretending to be two people.
“But it’s no use now,” thought poor Alice, “to pretend to be two
people! Why, there’s hardly enough of me left to make _one_ respectable
person!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under the table:
she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on which the words
“EAT ME” were beautifully marked in currants. “Well, I’ll eat it,” said
Alice, “and if it makes me grow larger, I can reach the key; and if it
makes me grow smaller, I can creep under the door; so either way I’ll
get into the garden, and I don’t care which happens!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself, “Which way? Which
way?”, holding her hand on the top of her head to feel which way it was
growing, and she was quite surprised to find that she remained the same
size: to be sure, this generally happens when one eats cake, but Alice
had got so much into the way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way
things to happen, that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go
on in the common way. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Curiouser and curiouser!” cried Alice (she was so much surprised, that
for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good English); “now I’m
opening out like the largest telescope that ever was! Good-bye, feet!”
(for when she looked down at her feet, they seemed to be almost out of
sight, they were getting so far off). “Oh, my poor little feet, I
wonder who will put on your shoes and stockings for you now, dears? I’m
sure _I_ shan’t be able! I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble
myself about you: you must manage the best way you can;—but I must be
kind to them,” thought Alice, “or perhaps they won’t walk the way I
want to go! Let me see: I’ll give them a new pair of boots every
Christmas.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it. “They must
go by the carrier,” she thought; “and how funny it’ll seem, sending
presents to one’s own feet! And how odd the directions will look! </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall: in fact she was
now more than nine feet high, and she at once took up the little golden
key and hurried off to the garden door. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Poor Alice! It was as much as she could do, lying down on one side, to
look through into the garden with one eye; but to get through was more
hopeless than ever: she sat down and began to cry again. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You ought to be ashamed of yourself,” said Alice, “a great girl like
you,” (she might well say this), “to go on crying in this way! Stop
this moment, I tell you!” But she went on all the same, shedding
gallons of tears, until there was a large pool all round her, about
four inches deep and reaching half down the hall. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the distance, and
she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming. It was the White
Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a pair of white kid gloves
in one hand and a large fan in the other: he came trotting along in a
great hurry, muttering to himself as he came, “Oh! the Duchess, the
Duchess! Oh! won’t she be savage if I’ve kept her waiting!” Alice felt
so desperate that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when the
Rabbit came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, “If you please,
sir—” The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid gloves and
the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as hard as he could go. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very hot, she
kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking: “Dear, dear! How
queer everything is to-day! And yesterday things went on just as usual.
I wonder if I’ve been changed in the night? Let me think: was I the
same when I got up this morning? I almost think I can remember feeling
a little different. But if I’m not the same, the next question is, Who
in the world am I? Ah, _that’s_ the great puzzle!” And she began
thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age as
herself, to see if she could have been changed for any of them. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I’m sure I’m not Ada,” she said, “for her hair goes in such long
ringlets, and mine doesn’t go in ringlets at all; and I’m sure I can’t
be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she, oh! she knows such a
very little! Besides, _she’s_ she, and _I’m_ I, and—oh dear, how
puzzling it all is! I’ll try if I know all the things I used to know.
Let me see: four times five is twelve, and four times six is thirteen,
and four times seven is—oh dear! I shall never get to twenty at that
rate! However, the Multiplication Table doesn’t signify: let’s try
Geography. London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of
Rome, and Rome—no, _that’s_ all wrong, I’m certain! I must have been
changed for Mabel! I’ll try and say ‘_How doth the little_—’” and she
crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons, and began
to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and strange, and the words
did not come the same as they used to do:— </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I’m sure those are not the right words,” said poor Alice, and her eyes
filled with tears again as she went on, “I must be Mabel after all, and
I shall have to go and live in that poky little house, and have next to
no toys to play with, and oh! ever so many lessons to learn! No, I’ve
made up my mind about it; if I’m Mabel, I’ll stay down here! It’ll be
no use their putting their heads down and saying ‘Come up again, dear!’
I shall only look up and say ‘Who am I then? Tell me that first, and
then, if I like being that person, I’ll come up: if not, I’ll stay down
here till I’m somebody else’—but, oh dear!” cried Alice, with a sudden
burst of tears, “I do wish they _would_ put their heads down! I am so
_very_ tired of being all alone here!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was surprised to see
that she had put on one of the Rabbit’s little white kid gloves while
she was talking. “How _can_ I have done that?” she thought. “I must be
growing small again.” She got up and went to the table to measure
herself by it, and found that, as nearly as she could guess, she was
now about two feet high, and was going on shrinking rapidly: she soon
found out that the cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she
dropped it hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That _was_ a narrow escape!” said Alice, a good deal frightened at the
sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in existence; “and
now for the garden!” and she ran with all speed back to the little
door: but, alas! the little door was shut again, and the little golden
key was lying on the glass table as before, “and things are worse than
ever,” thought the poor child, “for I never was so small as this
before, never! And I declare it’s too bad, that it is!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another moment,
splash! she was up to her chin in salt water. Her first idea was that
she had somehow fallen into the sea, “and in that case I can go back by
railway,” she said to herself. (Alice had been to the seaside once in
her life, and had come to the general conclusion, that wherever you go
to on the English coast you find a number of bathing machines in the
sea, some children digging in the sand with wooden spades, then a row
of lodging houses, and behind them a railway station.) However, she
soon made out that she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when
she was nine feet high. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I wish I hadn’t cried so much!” said Alice, as she swam about, trying
to find her way out. “I shall be punished for it now, I suppose, by
being drowned in my own tears! That _will_ be a queer thing, to be
sure! However, everything is queer to-day.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a little way
off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was: at first she thought
it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then she remembered how small
she was now, and she soon made out that it was only a mouse that had
slipped in like herself. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Would it be of any use, now,” thought Alice, “to speak to this mouse?
Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should think very
likely it can talk: at any rate, there’s no harm in trying.” So she
began: “O Mouse, do you know the way out of this pool? I am very tired
of swimming about here, O Mouse!” (Alice thought this must be the right
way of speaking to a mouse: she had never done such a thing before, but
she remembered having seen in her brother’s Latin Grammar, “A mouse—of
a mouse—to a mouse—a mouse—O mouse!”) The Mouse looked at her rather
inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little eyes,
but it said nothing. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Perhaps it doesn’t understand English,” thought Alice; “I daresay it’s
a French mouse, come over with William the Conqueror.” (For, with all
her knowledge of history, Alice had no very clear notion how long ago
anything had happened.) So she began again: “Où est ma chatte?” which
was the first sentence in her French lesson-book. The Mouse gave a
sudden leap out of the water, and seemed to quiver all over with
fright. “Oh, I beg your pardon!” cried Alice hastily, afraid that she
had hurt the poor animal’s feelings. “I quite forgot you didn’t like
cats.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, perhaps not,” said Alice in a soothing tone: “don’t be angry
about it. And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah: I think you’d
take a fancy to cats if you could only see her. She is such a dear
quiet thing,” Alice went on, half to herself, as she swam lazily about
in the pool, “and she sits purring so nicely by the fire, licking her
paws and washing her face—and she is such a nice soft thing to
nurse—and she’s such a capital one for catching mice—oh, I beg your
pardon!” cried Alice again, for this time the Mouse was bristling all
over, and she felt certain it must be really offended. “We won’t talk
about her any more if you’d rather not.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “We indeed!” cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end of his
tail. “As if _I_ would talk on such a subject! Our family always
_hated_ cats: nasty, low, vulgar things! Don’t let me hear the name
again!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I won’t indeed!” said Alice, in a great hurry to change the subject of
conversation. “Are you—are you fond—of—of dogs?” The Mouse did not
answer, so Alice went on eagerly: “There is such a nice little dog near
our house I should like to show you! A little bright-eyed terrier, you
know, with oh, such long curly brown hair! And it’ll fetch things when
you throw them, and it’ll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts
of things—I can’t remember half of them—and it belongs to a farmer, you
know, and he says it’s so useful, it’s worth a hundred pounds! He says
it kills all the rats and—oh dear!” cried Alice in a sorrowful tone,
“I’m afraid I’ve offended it again!” For the Mouse was swimming away
from her as hard as it could go, and making quite a commotion in the
pool as it went. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> So she called softly after it, “Mouse dear! Do come back again, and we
won’t talk about cats or dogs either, if you don’t like them!” When the
Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam slowly back to her: its face
was quite pale (with passion, Alice thought), and it said in a low
trembling voice, “Let us get to the shore, and then I’ll tell you my
history, and you’ll understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded with the
birds and animals that had fallen into it: there were a Duck and a
Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious creatures. Alice
led the way, and the whole party swam to the shore. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the bank—the
birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their fur clinging close
to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and uncomfortable. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The first question of course was, how to get dry again: they had a
consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed quite
natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with them, as if
she had known them all her life. Indeed, she had quite a long argument
with the Lory, who at last turned sulky, and would only say, “I am
older than you, and must know better;” and this Alice would not allow
without knowing how old it was, and, as the Lory positively refused to
tell its age, there was no more to be said. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among them,
called out, “Sit down, all of you, and listen to me! _I’ll_ soon make
you dry enough!” They all sat down at once, in a large ring, with the
Mouse in the middle. Alice kept her eyes anxiously fixed on it, for she
felt sure she would catch a bad cold if she did not get dry very soon. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Ahem!” said the Mouse with an important air, “are you all ready? This
is the driest thing I know. Silence all round, if you please! ‘William
the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was soon submitted
to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been of late much
accustomed to usurpation and conquest. Edwin and Morcar, the earls of
Mercia and Northumbria—’” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I thought you did,” said the Mouse. “—I proceed. ‘Edwin and Morcar,
the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him: and even
Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found it advisable—’” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I know what ‘it’ means well enough, when _I_ find a thing,” said the
Duck: “it’s generally a frog or a worm. The question is, what did the
archbishop find?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on, “‘—found
it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William and offer him
the crown. William’s conduct at first was moderate. But the insolence
of his Normans—’ How are you getting on now, my dear?” it continued,
turning to Alice as it spoke. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “In that case,” said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, “I move
that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more energetic
remedies—” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Speak English!” said the Eaglet. “I don’t know the meaning of half
those long words, and, what’s more, I don’t believe you do either!” And
the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile: some of the other birds
tittered audibly. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “What I was going to say,” said the Dodo in an offended tone, “was,
that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “What _is_ a Caucus-race?” said Alice; not that she wanted much to
know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that _somebody_ ought to
speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Why,” said the Dodo, “the best way to explain it is to do it.” (And,
as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter day, I will
tell you how the Dodo managed it.) </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (“the exact
shape doesn’t matter,” it said,) and then all the party were placed
along the course, here and there. There was no “One, two, three, and
away,” but they began running when they liked, and left off when they
liked, so that it was not easy to know when the race was over. However,
when they had been running half an hour or so, and were quite dry
again, the Dodo suddenly called out “The race is over!” and they all
crowded round it, panting, and asking, “But who has won?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of
thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon its
forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare, in the
pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence. At last the Dodo
said, “_Everybody_ has won, and all must have prizes.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Why, _she_, of course,” said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with one
finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her, calling out in a
confused way, “Prizes! Prizes!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand in her
pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt water had
not got into it), and handed them round as prizes. There was exactly
one a-piece, all round. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Of course,” the Dodo replied very gravely. “What else have you got in
your pocket?” he went on, turning to Alice. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo solemnly
presented the thimble, saying “We beg your acceptance of this elegant
thimble;” and, when it had finished this short speech, they all
cheered. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked so grave
that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not think of anything
to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble, looking as solemn as
she could. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The next thing was to eat the comfits: this caused some noise and
confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not taste
theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on the back.
However, it was over at last, and they sat down again in a ring, and
begged the Mouse to tell them something more. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You promised to tell me your history, you know,” said Alice, “and why
it is you hate—C and D,” she added in a whisper, half afraid that it
would be offended again. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It _is_ a long tail, certainly,” said Alice, looking down with wonder
at the Mouse’s tail; “but why do you call it sad?” And she kept on
puzzling about it while the Mouse was speaking, so that her idea of the
tale was something like this:— </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Fury said to a mouse, That he met in the house, ‘Let us both
         go to law: _I_ will prosecute _you_.—Come, I’ll take no
         denial; We must have a trial: For really this morning I’ve
         nothing to do.’ Said the mouse to the cur, ‘Such a trial, dear
         sir, With no jury or judge, would be wasting our breath.’
         ‘I’ll be judge, I’ll be jury,’ Said cunning old Fury: ‘I’ll
         try the whole cause, and condemn you to death.’” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “A knot!” said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and looking
anxiously about her. “Oh, do let me help to undo it!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I shall do nothing of the sort,” said the Mouse, getting up and
walking away. “You insult me by talking such nonsense!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Please come back and finish your story!” Alice called after it; and
the others all joined in chorus, “Yes, please do!” but the Mouse only
shook its head impatiently, and walked a little quicker. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “What a pity it wouldn’t stay!” sighed the Lory, as soon as it was
quite out of sight; and an old Crab took the opportunity of saying to
her daughter “Ah, my dear! Let this be a lesson to you never to lose
_your_ temper!” “Hold your tongue, Ma!” said the young Crab, a little
snappishly. “You’re enough to try the patience of an oyster!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!” said Alice aloud,
addressing nobody in particular. “She’d soon fetch it back!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about her pet:
“Dinah’s our cat. And she’s such a capital one for catching mice you
can’t think! And oh, I wish you could see her after the birds! Why,
she’ll eat a little bird as soon as look at it!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party. Some of the
birds hurried off at once: one old Magpie began wrapping itself up very
carefully, remarking, “I really must be getting home; the night-air
doesn’t suit my throat!” and a Canary called out in a trembling voice
to its children, “Come away, my dears! It’s high time you were all in
bed!” On various pretexts they all moved off, and Alice was soon left
alone. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I wish I hadn’t mentioned Dinah!” she said to herself in a melancholy
tone. “Nobody seems to like her, down here, and I’m sure she’s the best
cat in the world! Oh, my dear Dinah! I wonder if I shall ever see you
any more!” And here poor Alice began to cry again, for she felt very
lonely and low-spirited. In a little while, however, she again heard a
little pattering of footsteps in the distance, and she looked up
eagerly, half hoping that the Mouse had changed his mind, and was
coming back to finish his story. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and looking
anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something; and she heard
it muttering to itself “The Duchess! The Duchess! Oh my dear paws! Oh
my fur and whiskers! She’ll get me executed, as sure as ferrets are
ferrets! Where _can_ I have dropped them, I wonder?” Alice guessed in a
moment that it was looking for the fan and the pair of white kid
gloves, and she very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but
they were nowhere to be seen—everything seemed to have changed since
her swim in the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and the
little door, had vanished completely. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about, and
called out to her in an angry tone, “Why, Mary Ann, what _are_ you
doing out here? Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of gloves and
a fan! Quick, now!” And Alice was so much frightened that she ran off
at once in the direction it pointed to, without trying to explain the
mistake it had made. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He took me for his housemaid,” she said to herself as she ran. “How
surprised he’ll be when he finds out who I am! But I’d better take him
his fan and gloves—that is, if I can find them.” As she said this, she
came upon a neat little house, on the door of which was a bright brass
plate with the name “W. RABBIT,” engraved upon it. She went in without
knocking, and hurried upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the
real Mary Ann, and be turned out of the house before she had found the
fan and gloves. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “How queer it seems,” Alice said to herself, “to be going messages for
a rabbit! I suppose Dinah’ll be sending me on messages next!” And she
began fancying the sort of thing that would happen: “‘Miss Alice! Come
here directly, and get ready for your walk!’ ‘Coming in a minute,
nurse! But I’ve got to see that the mouse doesn’t get out.’ Only I
don’t think,” Alice went on, “that they’d let Dinah stop in the house
if it began ordering people about like that!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with a table
in the window, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan and two or three
pairs of tiny white kid gloves: she took up the fan and a pair of the
gloves, and was just going to leave the room, when her eye fell upon a
little bottle that stood near the looking-glass. There was no label
this time with the words “DRINK ME,” but nevertheless she uncorked it
and put it to her lips. “I know _something_ interesting is sure to
happen,” she said to herself, “whenever I eat or drink anything; so
I’ll just see what this bottle does. I do hope it’ll make me grow large
again, for really I’m quite tired of being such a tiny little thing!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It did so indeed, and much sooner than she had expected: before she had
drunk half the bottle, she found her head pressing against the ceiling,
and had to stoop to save her neck from being broken. She hastily put
down the bottle, saying to herself “That’s quite enough—I hope I shan’t
grow any more—As it is, I can’t get out at the door—I do wish I hadn’t
drunk quite so much!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alas! it was too late to wish that! She went on growing, and growing,
and very soon had to kneel down on the floor: in another minute there
was not even room for this, and she tried the effect of lying down with
one elbow against the door, and the other arm curled round her head.
Still she went on growing, and, as a last resource, she put one arm out
of the window, and one foot up the chimney, and said to herself “Now I
can do no more, whatever happens. What _will_ become of me?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full effect,
and she grew no larger: still it was very uncomfortable, and, as there
seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting out of the room
again, no wonder she felt unhappy. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It was much pleasanter at home,” thought poor Alice, “when one wasn’t
always growing larger and smaller, and being ordered about by mice and
rabbits. I almost wish I hadn’t gone down that rabbit-hole—and yet—and
yet—it’s rather curious, you know, this sort of life! I do wonder what
_can_ have happened to me! When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied
that kind of thing never happened, and now here I am in the middle of
one! There ought to be a book written about me, that there ought! And
when I grow up, I’ll write one—but I’m grown up now,” she added in a
sorrowful tone; “at least there’s no room to grow up any more _here_.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But then,” thought Alice, “shall I _never_ get any older than I am
now? That’ll be a comfort, one way—never to be an old woman—but
then—always to have lessons to learn! Oh, I shouldn’t like _that!_” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, you foolish Alice!” she answered herself. “How can you learn
lessons in here? Why, there’s hardly room for _you_, and no room at all
for any lesson-books!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> And so she went on, taking first one side and then the other, and
making quite a conversation of it altogether; but after a few minutes
she heard a voice outside, and stopped to listen. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Mary Ann! Mary Ann!” said the voice. “Fetch me my gloves this moment!”
Then came a little pattering of feet on the stairs. Alice knew it was
the Rabbit coming to look for her, and she trembled till she shook the
house, quite forgetting that she was now about a thousand times as
large as the Rabbit, and had no reason to be afraid of it. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Presently the Rabbit came up to the door, and tried to open it; but, as
the door opened inwards, and Alice’s elbow was pressed hard against it,
that attempt proved a failure. Alice heard it say to itself “Then I’ll
go round and get in at the window.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “_That_ you won’t!” thought Alice, and, after waiting till she fancied
she heard the Rabbit just under the window, she suddenly spread out her
hand, and made a snatch in the air. She did not get hold of anything,
but she heard a little shriek and a fall, and a crash of broken glass,
from which she concluded that it was just possible it had fallen into a
cucumber-frame, or something of the sort. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Next came an angry voice—the Rabbit’s—“Pat! Pat! Where are you?” And
then a voice she had never heard before, “Sure then I’m here! Digging
for apples, yer honour!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Digging for apples, indeed!” said the Rabbit angrily. “Here! Come and
help me out of _this!_” (Sounds of more broken glass.) </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear whispers
now and then; such as, “Sure, I don’t like it, yer honour, at all, at
all!” “Do as I tell you, you coward!” and at last she spread out her
hand again, and made another snatch in the air. This time there were
_two_ little shrieks, and more sounds of broken glass. “What a number
of cucumber-frames there must be!” thought Alice. “I wonder what
they’ll do next! As for pulling me out of the window, I only wish they
_could!_ I’m sure _I_ don’t want to stay in here any longer!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She waited for some time without hearing anything more: at last came a
rumbling of little cartwheels, and the sound of a good many voices all
talking together: she made out the words: “Where’s the other
ladder?—Why, I hadn’t to bring but one; Bill’s got the other—Bill!
fetch it here, lad!—Here, put ’em up at this corner—No, tie ’em
together first—they don’t reach half high enough yet—Oh! they’ll do
well enough; don’t be particular—Here, Bill! catch hold of this
rope—Will the roof bear?—Mind that loose slate—Oh, it’s coming down!
Heads below!” (a loud crash)—“Now, who did that?—It was Bill, I
fancy—Who’s to go down the chimney?—Nay, _I_ shan’t! _You_ do
it!—_That_ I won’t, then!—Bill’s to go down—Here, Bill! the master says
you’re to go down the chimney!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh! So Bill’s got to come down the chimney, has he?” said Alice to
herself. “Shy, they seem to put everything upon Bill! I wouldn’t be in
Bill’s place for a good deal: this fireplace is narrow, to be sure; but
I _think_ I can kick a little!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could, and waited till
she heard a little animal (she couldn’t guess of what sort it was)
scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close above her: then,
saying to herself “This is Bill,” she gave one sharp kick, and waited
to see what would happen next. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The first thing she heard was a general chorus of “There goes Bill!”
then the Rabbit’s voice along—“Catch him, you by the hedge!” then
silence, and then another confusion of voices—“Hold up his head—Brandy
now—Don’t choke him—How was it, old fellow? What happened to you? Tell
us all about it!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice, (“That’s Bill,” thought
Alice,) “Well, I hardly know—No more, thank ye; I’m better now—but I’m
a deal too flustered to tell you—all I know is, something comes at me
like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes like a sky-rocket!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “We must burn the house down!” said the Rabbit’s voice; and Alice
called out as loud as she could, “If you do, I’ll set Dinah at you!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> There was a dead silence instantly, and Alice thought to herself, “I
wonder what they _will_ do next! If they had any sense, they’d take the
roof off.” After a minute or two, they began moving about again, and
Alice heard the Rabbit say, “A barrowful will do, to begin with.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “A barrowful of _what?_” thought Alice; but she had not long to doubt,
for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came rattling in at the
window, and some of them hit her in the face. “I’ll put a stop to
this,” she said to herself, and shouted out, “You’d better not do that
again!” which produced another dead silence. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all turning into
little cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright idea came into her
head. “If I eat one of these cakes,” she thought, “it’s sure to make
_some_ change in my size; and as it can’t possibly make me larger, it
must make me smaller, I suppose.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> So she swallowed one of the cakes, and was delighted to find that she
began shrinking directly. As soon as she was small enough to get
through the door, she ran out of the house, and found quite a crowd of
little animals and birds waiting outside. The poor little Lizard, Bill,
was in the middle, being held up by two guinea-pigs, who were giving it
something out of a bottle. They all made a rush at Alice the moment she
appeared; but she ran off as hard as she could, and soon found herself
safe in a thick wood. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The first thing I’ve got to do,” said Alice to herself, as she
wandered about in the wood, “is to grow to my right size again; and the
second thing is to find my way into that lovely garden. I think that
will be the best plan.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It sounded an excellent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and simply
arranged; the only difficulty was, that she had not the smallest idea
how to set about it; and while she was peering about anxiously among
the trees, a little sharp bark just over her head made her look up in a
great hurry. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> An enormous puppy was looking down at her with large round eyes, and
feebly stretching out one paw, trying to touch her. “Poor little
thing!” said Alice, in a coaxing tone, and she tried hard to whistle to
it; but she was terribly frightened all the time at the thought that it
might be hungry, in which case it would be very likely to eat her up in
spite of all her coaxing. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Hardly knowing what she did, she picked up a little bit of stick, and
held it out to the puppy; whereupon the puppy jumped into the air off
all its feet at once, with a yelp of delight, and rushed at the stick,
and made believe to worry it; then Alice dodged behind a great thistle,
to keep herself from being run over; and the moment she appeared on the
other side, the puppy made another rush at the stick, and tumbled head
over heels in its hurry to get hold of it; then Alice, thinking it was
very like having a game of play with a cart-horse, and expecting every
moment to be trampled under its feet, ran round the thistle again; then
the puppy began a series of short charges at the stick, running a very
little way forwards each time and a long way back, and barking hoarsely
all the while, till at last it sat down a good way off, panting, with
its tongue hanging out of its mouth, and its great eyes half shut. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This seemed to Alice a good opportunity for making her escape; so she
set off at once, and ran till she was quite tired and out of breath,
and till the puppy’s bark sounded quite faint in the distance. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And yet what a dear little puppy it was!” said Alice, as she leant
against a buttercup to rest herself, and fanned herself with one of the
leaves: “I should have liked teaching it tricks very much, if—if I’d
only been the right size to do it! Oh dear! I’d nearly forgotten that
I’ve got to grow up again! Let me see—how _is_ it to be managed? I
suppose I ought to eat or drink something or other; but the great
question is, what?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The great question certainly was, what? Alice looked all round her at
the flowers and the blades of grass, but she did not see anything that
looked like the right thing to eat or drink under the circumstances.
There was a large mushroom growing near her, about the same height as
herself; and when she had looked under it, and on both sides of it, and
behind it, it occurred to her that she might as well look and see what
was on the top of it. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She stretched herself up on tiptoe, and peeped over the edge of the
mushroom, and her eyes immediately met those of a large blue
caterpillar, that was sitting on the top with its arms folded, quietly
smoking a long hookah, and taking not the smallest notice of her or of
anything else. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Caterpillar and Alice looked at each other for some time in
silence: at last the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth, and
addressed her in a languid, sleepy voice. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This was not an encouraging opening for a conversation. Alice replied,
rather shyly, “I—I hardly know, sir, just at present—at least I know
who I _was_ when I got up this morning, but I think I must have been
changed several times since then.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I’m afraid I can’t put it more clearly,” Alice replied very politely,
“for I can’t understand it myself to begin with; and being so many
different sizes in a day is very confusing.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, perhaps you haven’t found it so yet,” said Alice; “but when you
have to turn into a chrysalis—you will some day, you know—and then
after that into a butterfly, I should think you’ll feel it a little
queer, won’t you?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Which brought them back again to the beginning of the conversation.
Alice felt a little irritated at the Caterpillar’s making such _very_
short remarks, and she drew herself up and said, very gravely, “I
think, you ought to tell me who _you_ are, first.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Here was another puzzling question; and as Alice could not think of any
good reason, and as the Caterpillar seemed to be in a _very_ unpleasant
state of mind, she turned away. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice thought she might as well wait, as she had nothing else to do,
and perhaps after all it might tell her something worth hearing. For
some minutes it puffed away without speaking, but at last it unfolded
its arms, took the hookah out of its mouth again, and said, “So you
think you’re changed, do you?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I’m afraid I am, sir,” said Alice; “I can’t remember things as I
used—and I don’t keep the same size for ten minutes together!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, I’ve tried to say “How doth the little busy bee,” but it all
came different!” Alice replied in a very melancholy voice. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You are old, Father William,” the young man said,
    “And your hair has become very white;
And yet you incessantly stand on your head—
    Do you think, at your age, it is right?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “In my youth,” Father William replied to his son,
    “I feared it might injure the brain;
But, now that I’m perfectly sure I have none,
    Why, I do it again and again.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You are old,” said the youth, “as I mentioned before,
    And have grown most uncommonly fat;
Yet you turned a back-somersault in at the door—
    Pray, what is the reason of that?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “In my youth,” said the sage, as he shook his grey locks,
    “I kept all my limbs very supple
By the use of this ointment—one shilling the box—
    Allow me to sell you a couple?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You are old,” said the youth, “and your jaws are too weak
    For anything tougher than suet;
Yet you finished the goose, with the bones and the beak—
    Pray, how did you manage to do it?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “In my youth,” said his father, “I took to the law,
    And argued each case with my wife;
And the muscular strength, which it gave to my jaw,
    Has lasted the rest of my life.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You are old,” said the youth, “one would hardly suppose
    That your eye was as steady as ever;
Yet you balanced an eel on the end of your nose—
    What made you so awfully clever?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have answered three questions, and that is enough,”
    Said his father; “don’t give yourself airs!
Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff?
    Be off, or I’ll kick you down stairs!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice said nothing: she had never been so much contradicted in her life
before, and she felt that she was losing her temper. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, I should like to be a _little_ larger, sir, if you wouldn’t
mind,” said Alice: “three inches is such a wretched height to be.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is a very good height indeed!” said the Caterpillar angrily,
rearing itself upright as it spoke (it was exactly three inches high). </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But I’m not used to it!” pleaded poor Alice in a piteous tone. And she
thought of herself, “I wish the creatures wouldn’t be so easily
offended!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You’ll get used to it in time,” said the Caterpillar; and it put the
hookah into its mouth and began smoking again. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This time Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again. In a
minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth and
yawned once or twice, and shook itself. Then it got down off the
mushroom, and crawled away in the grass, merely remarking as it went,
“One side will make you grow taller, and the other side will make you
grow shorter.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Of the mushroom,” said the Caterpillar, just as if she had asked it
aloud; and in another moment it was out of sight. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a minute,
trying to make out which were the two sides of it; and as it was
perfectly round, she found this a very difficult question. However, at
last she stretched her arms round it as far as they would go, and broke
off a bit of the edge with each hand. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And now which is which?” she said to herself, and nibbled a little of
the right-hand bit to try the effect: the next moment she felt a
violent blow underneath her chin: it had struck her foot! </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She was a good deal frightened by this very sudden change, but she felt
that there was no time to be lost, as she was shrinking rapidly; so she
set to work at once to eat some of the other bit. Her chin was pressed
so closely against her foot, that there was hardly room to open her
mouth; but she did it at last, and managed to swallow a morsel of the
lefthand bit. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Come, my head’s free at last!” said Alice in a tone of delight, which
changed into alarm in another moment, when she found that her shoulders
were nowhere to be found: all she could see, when she looked down, was
an immense length of neck, which seemed to rise like a stalk out of a
sea of green leaves that lay far below her. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “What _can_ all that green stuff be?” said Alice. “And where _have_ my
shoulders got to? And oh, my poor hands, how is it I can’t see you?”
She was moving them about as she spoke, but no result seemed to follow,
except a little shaking among the distant green leaves. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As there seemed to be no chance of getting her hands up to her head,
she tried to get her head down to them, and was delighted to find that
her neck would bend about easily in any direction, like a serpent. She
had just succeeded in curving it down into a graceful zigzag, and was
going to dive in among the leaves, which she found to be nothing but
the tops of the trees under which she had been wandering, when a sharp
hiss made her draw back in a hurry: a large pigeon had flown into her
face, and was beating her violently with its wings. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Serpent, I say again!” repeated the Pigeon, but in a more subdued
tone, and added with a kind of sob, “I’ve tried every way, and nothing
seems to suit them!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I’ve tried the roots of trees, and I’ve tried banks, and I’ve tried
hedges,” the Pigeon went on, without attending to her; “but those
serpents! There’s no pleasing them!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice was more and more puzzled, but she thought there was no use in
saying anything more till the Pigeon had finished. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “As if it wasn’t trouble enough hatching the eggs,” said the Pigeon;
“but I must be on the look-out for serpents night and day! Why, I
haven’t had a wink of sleep these three weeks!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And just as I’d taken the highest tree in the wood,” continued the
Pigeon, raising its voice to a shriek, “and just as I was thinking I
should be free of them at last, they must needs come wriggling down
from the sky! Ugh, Serpent!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I—I’m a little girl,” said Alice, rather doubtfully, as she remembered
the number of changes she had gone through that day. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “A likely story indeed!” said the Pigeon in a tone of the deepest
contempt. “I’ve seen a good many little girls in my time, but never
_one_ with such a neck as that! No, no! You’re a serpent; and there’s
no use denying it. I suppose you’ll be telling me next that you never
tasted an egg!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I _have_ tasted eggs, certainly,” said Alice, who was a very truthful
child; “but little girls eat eggs quite as much as serpents do, you
know.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I don’t believe it,” said the Pigeon; “but if they do, why then
they’re a kind of serpent, that’s all I can say.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was quite silent for a
minute or two, which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of adding, “You’re
looking for eggs, I know _that_ well enough; and what does it matter to
me whether you’re a little girl or a serpent?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It matters a good deal to _me_,” said Alice hastily; “but I’m not
looking for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldn’t want
_yours_: I don’t like them raw.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, be off, then!” said the Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it settled
down again into its nest. Alice crouched down among the trees as well
as she could, for her neck kept getting entangled among the branches,
and every now and then she had to stop and untwist it. After a while
she remembered that she still held the pieces of mushroom in her hands,
and she set to work very carefully, nibbling first at one and then at
the other, and growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until
she had succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was so long since she had been anything near the right size, that it
felt quite strange at first; but she got used to it in a few minutes,
and began talking to herself, as usual. “Come, there’s half my plan
done now! How puzzling all these changes are! I’m never sure what I’m
going to be, from one minute to another! However, I’ve got back to my
right size: the next thing is, to get into that beautiful garden—how
_is_ that to be done, I wonder?” As she said this, she came suddenly
upon an open place, with a little house in it about four feet high.
“Whoever lives there,” thought Alice, “it’ll never do to come upon them
_this_ size: why, I should frighten them out of their wits!” So she
began nibbling at the righthand bit again, and did not venture to go
near the house till she had brought herself down to nine inches high. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> For a minute or two she stood looking at the house, and wondering what
to do next, when suddenly a footman in livery came running out of the
wood—(she considered him to be a footman because he was in livery:
otherwise, judging by his face only, she would have called him a
fish)—and rapped loudly at the door with his knuckles. It was opened by
another footman in livery, with a round face, and large eyes like a
frog; and both footmen, Alice noticed, had powdered hair that curled
all over their heads. She felt very curious to know what it was all
about, and crept a little way out of the wood to listen. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Fish-Footman began by producing from under his arm a great letter,
nearly as large as himself, and this he handed over to the other,
saying, in a solemn tone, “For the Duchess. An invitation from the
Queen to play croquet.” The Frog-Footman repeated, in the same solemn
tone, only changing the order of the words a little, “From the Queen.
An invitation for the Duchess to play croquet.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into the wood
for fear of their hearing her; and when she next peeped out the
Fish-Footman was gone, and the other was sitting on the ground near the
door, staring stupidly up into the sky. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “There’s no sort of use in knocking,” said the Footman, “and that for
two reasons. First, because I’m on the same side of the door as you
are; secondly, because they’re making such a noise inside, no one could
possibly hear you.” And certainly there _was_ a most extraordinary
noise going on within—a constant howling and sneezing, and every now
and then a great crash, as if a dish or kettle had been broken to
pieces. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “There might be some sense in your knocking,” the Footman went on
without attending to her, “if we had the door between us. For instance,
if you were _inside_, you might knock, and I could let you out, you
know.” He was looking up into the sky all the time he was speaking, and
this Alice thought decidedly uncivil. “But perhaps he can’t help it,”
she said to herself; “his eyes are so _very_ nearly at the top of his
head. But at any rate he might answer questions.—How am I to get in?”
she repeated, aloud. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> At this moment the door of the house opened, and a large plate came
skimming out, straight at the Footman’s head: it just grazed his nose,
and broke to pieces against one of the trees behind him. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was, no doubt: only Alice did not like to be told so. “It’s really
dreadful,” she muttered to herself, “the way all the creatures argue.
It’s enough to drive one crazy!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for repeating his
remark, with variations. “I shall sit here,” he said, “on and off, for
days and days.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, there’s no use in talking to him,” said Alice desperately: “he’s
perfectly idiotic!” And she opened the door and went in. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The door led right into a large kitchen, which was full of smoke from
one end to the other: the Duchess was sitting on a three-legged stool
in the middle, nursing a baby; the cook was leaning over the fire,
stirring a large cauldron which seemed to be full of soup. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> There was certainly too much of it in the air. Even the Duchess sneezed
occasionally; and as for the baby, it was sneezing and howling
alternately without a moment’s pause. The only things in the kitchen
that did not sneeze, were the cook, and a large cat which was sitting
on the hearth and grinning from ear to ear. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Please would you tell me,” said Alice, a little timidly, for she was
not quite sure whether it was good manners for her to speak first, “why
your cat grins like that?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She said the last word with such sudden violence that Alice quite
jumped; but she saw in another moment that it was addressed to the
baby, and not to her, so she took courage, and went on again:— </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice did not at all like the tone of this remark, and thought it would
be as well to introduce some other subject of conversation. While she
was trying to fix on one, the cook took the cauldron of soup off the
fire, and at once set to work throwing everything within her reach at
the Duchess and the baby—the fire-irons came first; then followed a
shower of saucepans, plates, and dishes. The Duchess took no notice of
them even when they hit her; and the baby was howling so much already,
that it was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, _please_ mind what you’re doing!” cried Alice, jumping up and down
in an agony of terror. “Oh, there goes his _precious_ nose!” as an
unusually large saucepan flew close by it, and very nearly carried it
off. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If everybody minded their own business,” the Duchess said in a hoarse
growl, “the world would go round a deal faster than it does.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Which would _not_ be an advantage,” said Alice, who felt very glad to
get an opportunity of showing off a little of her knowledge. “Just
think of what work it would make with the day and night! You see the
earth takes twenty-four hours to turn round on its axis—” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook, to see if she meant to take
the hint; but the cook was busily stirring the soup, and seemed not to
be listening, so she went on again: “Twenty-four hours, I _think_; or
is it twelve? I—” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, don’t bother _me_,” said the Duchess; “I never could abide
figures!” And with that she began nursing her child again, singing a
sort of lullaby to it as she did so, and giving it a violent shake at
the end of every line: </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Speak roughly to your little boy,
    And beat him when he sneezes:
He only does it to annoy,
    Because he knows it teases.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song, she kept tossing
the baby violently up and down, and the poor little thing howled so,
that Alice could hardly hear the words:— </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I speak severely to my boy,
    I beat him when he sneezes;
For he can thoroughly enjoy
    The pepper when he pleases!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Here! you may nurse it a bit, if you like!” the Duchess said to Alice,
flinging the baby at her as she spoke. “I must go and get ready to play
croquet with the Queen,” and she hurried out of the room. The cook
threw a frying-pan after her as she went out, but it just missed her. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-shaped
little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all directions,
“just like a star-fish,” thought Alice. The poor little thing was
snorting like a steam-engine when she caught it, and kept doubling
itself up and straightening itself out again, so that altogether, for
the first minute or two, it was as much as she could do to hold it. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it, (which was to
twist it up into a sort of knot, and then keep tight hold of its right
ear and left foot, so as to prevent its undoing itself,) she carried it
out into the open air. “If I don’t take this child away with me,”
thought Alice, “they’re sure to kill it in a day or two: wouldn’t it be
murder to leave it behind?” She said the last words out loud, and the
little thing grunted in reply (it had left off sneezing by this time).
“Don’t grunt,” said Alice; “that’s not at all a proper way of
expressing yourself.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The baby grunted again, and Alice looked very anxiously into its face
to see what was the matter with it. There could be no doubt that it had
a _very_ turn-up nose, much more like a snout than a real nose; also
its eyes were getting extremely small for a baby: altogether Alice did
not like the look of the thing at all. “But perhaps it was only
sobbing,” she thought, and looked into its eyes again, to see if there
were any tears. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> No, there were no tears. “If you’re going to turn into a pig, my dear,”
said Alice, seriously, “I’ll have nothing more to do with you. Mind
now!” The poor little thing sobbed again (or grunted, it was impossible
to say which), and they went on for some while in silence. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice was just beginning to think to herself, “Now, what am I to do
with this creature when I get it home?” when it grunted again, so
violently, that she looked down into its face in some alarm. This time
there could be _no_ mistake about it: it was neither more nor less than
a pig, and she felt that it would be quite absurd for her to carry it
further. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> So she set the little creature down, and felt quite relieved to see it
trot away quietly into the wood. “If it had grown up,” she said to
herself, “it would have made a dreadfully ugly child: but it makes
rather a handsome pig, I think.” And she began thinking over other
children she knew, who might do very well as pigs, and was just saying
to herself, “if one only knew the right way to change them—” when she
was a little startled by seeing the Cheshire Cat sitting on a bough of
a tree a few yards off. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Cat only grinned when it saw Alice. It looked good-natured, she
thought: still it had _very_ long claws and a great many teeth, so she
felt that it ought to be treated with respect. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Cheshire Puss,” she began, rather timidly, as she did not at all know
whether it would like the name: however, it only grinned a little
wider. “Come, it’s pleased so far,” thought Alice, and she went on.
“Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “In _that_ direction,” the Cat said, waving its right paw round, “lives
a Hatter: and in _that_ direction,” waving the other paw, “lives a
March Hare. Visit either you like: they’re both mad.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, then,” the Cat went on, “you see, a dog growls when it’s angry,
and wags its tail when it’s pleased. Now _I_ growl when I’m pleased,
and wag my tail when I’m angry. Therefore I’m mad.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice was not much surprised at this, she was getting so used to queer
things happening. While she was looking at the place where it had been,
it suddenly appeared again. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice waited a little, half expecting to see it again, but it did not
appear, and after a minute or two she walked on in the direction in
which the March Hare was said to live. “I’ve seen hatters before,” she
said to herself; “the March Hare will be much the most interesting, and
perhaps as this is May it won’t be raving mad—at least not so mad as it
was in March.” As she said this, she looked up, and there was the Cat
again, sitting on a branch of a tree. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I said pig,” replied Alice; “and I wish you wouldn’t keep appearing
and vanishing so suddenly: you make one quite giddy.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “All right,” said the Cat; and this time it vanished quite slowly,
beginning with the end of the tail, and ending with the grin, which
remained some time after the rest of it had gone. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well! I’ve often seen a cat without a grin,” thought Alice; “but a
grin without a cat! It’s the most curious thing I ever saw in my life!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She had not gone much farther before she came in sight of the house of
the March Hare: she thought it must be the right house, because the
chimneys were shaped like ears and the roof was thatched with fur. It
was so large a house, that she did not like to go nearer till she had
nibbled some more of the lefthand bit of mushroom, and raised herself
to about two feet high: even then she walked up towards it rather
timidly, saying to herself “Suppose it should be raving mad after all!
I almost wish I’d gone to see the Hatter instead!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> There was a table set out under a tree in front of the house, and the
March Hare and the Hatter were having tea at it: a Dormouse was sitting
between them, fast asleep, and the other two were using it as a
cushion, resting their elbows on it, and talking over its head. “Very
uncomfortable for the Dormouse,” thought Alice; “only, as it’s asleep,
I suppose it doesn’t mind.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The table was a large one, but the three were all crowded together at
one corner of it: “No room! No room!” they cried out when they saw
Alice coming. “There’s _plenty_ of room!” said Alice indignantly, and
she sat down in a large arm-chair at one end of the table. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice looked all round the table, but there was nothing on it but tea.
“I don’t see any wine,” she remarked. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Your hair wants cutting,” said the Hatter. He had been looking at
Alice for some time with great curiosity, and this was his first
speech. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Hatter opened his eyes very wide on hearing this; but all he _said_
was, “Why is a raven like a writing-desk?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Come, we shall have some fun now!” thought Alice. “I’m glad they’ve
begun asking riddles.—I believe I can guess that,” she added aloud. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Not the same thing a bit!” said the Hatter. “You might just as well
say that ‘I see what I eat’ is the same thing as ‘I eat what I see’!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You might just as well say,” added the March Hare, “that ‘I like what
I get’ is the same thing as ‘I get what I like’!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You might just as well say,” added the Dormouse, who seemed to be
talking in his sleep, “that ‘I breathe when I sleep’ is the same thing
as ‘I sleep when I breathe’!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It _is_ the same thing with you,” said the Hatter, and here the
conversation dropped, and the party sat silent for a minute, while
Alice thought over all she could remember about ravens and
writing-desks, which wasn’t much. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Hatter was the first to break the silence. “What day of the month
is it?” he said, turning to Alice: he had taken his watch out of his
pocket, and was looking at it uneasily, shaking it every now and then,
and holding it to his ear. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Two days wrong!” sighed the Hatter. “I told you butter wouldn’t suit
the works!” he added looking angrily at the March Hare. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, but some crumbs must have got in as well,” the Hatter grumbled:
“you shouldn’t have put it in with the bread-knife.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The March Hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily: then he dipped
it into his cup of tea, and looked at it again: but he could think of
nothing better to say than his first remark, “It was the _best_ butter,
you know.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity. “What a
funny watch!” she remarked. “It tells the day of the month, and doesn’t
tell what o’clock it is!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Of course not,” Alice replied very readily: “but that’s because it
stays the same year for such a long time together.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice felt dreadfully puzzled, The Hatter’s remark seemed to have no
sort of meaning in it, and yet it was certainly English. “I don’t quite
understand you,” she said, as politely as she could. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Dormouse shook its head impatiently, and said, without opening its
eyes, “Of course, of course; just what I was going to remark myself.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice sighed wearily. “I think you might do something better with the
time,” she said, “than waste it in asking riddles that have no
answers.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Ah! that accounts for it,” said the Hatter. “He won’t stand beating.
Now, if you only kept on good terms with him, he’d do almost anything
you liked with the clock. For instance, suppose it were nine o’clock in
the morning, just time to begin lessons: you’d only have to whisper a
hint to Time, and round goes the clock in a twinkling! Half-past one,
time for dinner!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Hatter shook his head mournfully. “Not I!” he replied. “We
quarrelled last March—just before _he_ went mad, you know—” (pointing
with his tea spoon at the March Hare,) “—it was at the great concert
given by the Queen of Hearts, and I had to sing </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Here the Dormouse shook itself, and began singing in its sleep
“_Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle_—” and went on so long that they
had to pinch it to make it stop. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, I’d hardly finished the first verse,” said the Hatter, “when the
Queen jumped up and bawled out, ‘He’s murdering the time! Off with his
head!’” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And ever since that,” the Hatter went on in a mournful tone, “he won’t
do a thing I ask! It’s always six o’clock now.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, that’s it,” said the Hatter with a sigh: “it’s always tea-time,
and we’ve no time to wash the things between whiles.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Suppose we change the subject,” the March Hare interrupted, yawning.
“I’m getting tired of this. I vote the young lady tells us a story.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes. “I wasn’t asleep,” he said in a
hoarse, feeble voice: “I heard every word you fellows were saying.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Once upon a time there were three little sisters,” the Dormouse began
in a great hurry; “and their names were Elsie, Lacie, and Tillie; and
they lived at the bottom of a well—” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary way of
living would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she went on: “But
why did they live at the bottom of a well?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice did not quite know what to say to this: so she helped herself to
some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to the Dormouse, and
repeated her question. “Why did they live at the bottom of a well?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “There’s no such thing!” Alice was beginning very angrily, but the
Hatter and the March Hare went “Sh! sh!” and the Dormouse sulkily
remarked, “If you can’t be civil, you’d better finish the story for
yourself.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “One, indeed!” said the Dormouse indignantly. However, he consented to
go on. “And so these three little sisters—they were learning to draw,
you know—” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He moved on as he spoke, and the Dormouse followed him: the March Hare
moved into the Dormouse’s place, and Alice rather unwillingly took the
place of the March Hare. The Hatter was the only one who got any
advantage from the change: and Alice was a good deal worse off than
before, as the March Hare had just upset the milk-jug into his plate. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice did not wish to offend the Dormouse again, so she began very
cautiously: “But I don’t understand. Where did they draw the treacle
from?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You can draw water out of a water-well,” said the Hatter; “so I should
think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well—eh, stupid?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “They were learning to draw,” the Dormouse went on, yawning and rubbing
its eyes, for it was getting very sleepy; “and they drew all manner of
things—everything that begins with an M—” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Dormouse had closed its eyes by this time, and was going off into a
doze; but, on being pinched by the Hatter, it woke up again with a
little shriek, and went on: “—that begins with an M, such as
mouse-traps, and the moon, and memory, and muchness—you know you say
things are “much of a muchness”—did you ever see such a thing as a
drawing of a muchness?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear: she got up in
great disgust, and walked off; the Dormouse fell asleep instantly, and
neither of the others took the least notice of her going, though she
looked back once or twice, half hoping that they would call after her:
the last time she saw them, they were trying to put the Dormouse into
the teapot. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “At any rate I’ll never go _there_ again!” said Alice as she picked her
way through the wood. “It’s the stupidest tea-party I ever was at in
all my life!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Just as she said this, she noticed that one of the trees had a door
leading right into it. “That’s very curious!” she thought. “But
everything’s curious today. I think I may as well go in at once.” And
in she went. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Once more she found herself in the long hall, and close to the little
glass table. “Now, I’ll manage better this time,” she said to herself,
and began by taking the little golden key, and unlocking the door that
led into the garden. Then she went to work nibbling at the mushroom
(she had kept a piece of it in her pocket) till she was about a foot
high: then she walked down the little passage: and _then_—she found
herself at last in the beautiful garden, among the bright flower-beds
and the cool fountains. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> A large rose-tree stood near the entrance of the garden: the roses
growing on it were white, but there were three gardeners at it, busily
painting them red. Alice thought this a very curious thing, and she
went nearer to watch them, and just as she came up to them she heard
one of them say, “Look out now, Five! Don’t go splashing paint over me
like that!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Seven flung down his brush, and had just begun “Well, of all the unjust
things—” when his eye chanced to fall upon Alice, as she stood watching
them, and he checked himself suddenly: the others looked round also,
and all of them bowed low. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Five and Seven said nothing, but looked at Two. Two began in a low
voice, “Why the fact is, you see, Miss, this here ought to have been a
_red_ rose-tree, and we put a white one in by mistake; and if the Queen
was to find it out, we should all have our heads cut off, you know. So
you see, Miss, we’re doing our best, afore she comes, to—” At this
moment Five, who had been anxiously looking across the garden, called
out “The Queen! The Queen!” and the three gardeners instantly threw
themselves flat upon their faces. There was a sound of many footsteps,
and Alice looked round, eager to see the Queen. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> First came ten soldiers carrying clubs; these were all shaped like the
three gardeners, oblong and flat, with their hands and feet at the
corners: next the ten courtiers; these were ornamented all over with
diamonds, and walked two and two, as the soldiers did. After these came
the royal children; there were ten of them, and the little dears came
jumping merrily along hand in hand, in couples: they were all
ornamented with hearts. Next came the guests, mostly Kings and Queens,
and among them Alice recognised the White Rabbit: it was talking in a
hurried nervous manner, smiling at everything that was said, and went
by without noticing her. Then followed the Knave of Hearts, carrying
the King’s crown on a crimson velvet cushion; and, last of all this
grand procession, came THE KING AND QUEEN OF HEARTS. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice was rather doubtful whether she ought not to lie down on her face
like the three gardeners, but she could not remember ever having heard
of such a rule at processions; “and besides, what would be the use of a
procession,” thought she, “if people had all to lie down upon their
faces, so that they couldn’t see it?” So she stood still where she was,
and waited. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When the procession came opposite to Alice, they all stopped and looked
at her, and the Queen said severely “Who is this?” She said it to the
Knave of Hearts, who only bowed and smiled in reply. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My name is Alice, so please your Majesty,” said Alice very politely;
but she added, to herself, “Why, they’re only a pack of cards, after
all. I needn’t be afraid of them!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And who are _these?_” said the Queen, pointing to the three gardeners
who were lying round the rose-tree; for, you see, as they were lying on
their faces, and the pattern on their backs was the same as the rest of
the pack, she could not tell whether they were gardeners, or soldiers,
or courtiers, or three of her own children. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Queen turned crimson with fury, and, after glaring at her for a
moment like a wild beast, screamed “Off with her head! Off—” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Get up!” said the Queen, in a shrill, loud voice, and the three
gardeners instantly jumped up, and began bowing to the King, the Queen,
the royal children, and everybody else. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Leave off that!” screamed the Queen. “You make me giddy.” And then,
turning to the rose-tree, she went on, “What _have_ you been doing
here?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “May it please your Majesty,” said Two, in a very humble tone, going
down on one knee as he spoke, “we were trying—” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “_I_ see!” said the Queen, who had meanwhile been examining the roses.
“Off with their heads!” and the procession moved on, three of the
soldiers remaining behind to execute the unfortunate gardeners, who ran
to Alice for protection. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You shan’t be beheaded!” said Alice, and she put them into a large
flower-pot that stood near. The three soldiers wandered about for a
minute or two, looking for them, and then quietly marched off after the
others. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It’s—it’s a very fine day!” said a timid voice at her side. She was
walking by the White Rabbit, who was peeping anxiously into her face. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Hush! Hush!” said the Rabbit in a low, hurried tone. He looked
anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke, and then raised himself upon
tiptoe, put his mouth close to her ear, and whispered “She’s under
sentence of execution.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “She boxed the Queen’s ears—” the Rabbit began. Alice gave a little
scream of laughter. “Oh, hush!” the Rabbit whispered in a frightened
tone. “The Queen will hear you! You see, she came rather late, and the
Queen said—” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Get to your places!” shouted the Queen in a voice of thunder, and
people began running about in all directions, tumbling up against each
other; however, they got settled down in a minute or two, and the game
began. Alice thought she had never seen such a curious croquet-ground
in her life; it was all ridges and furrows; the balls were live
hedgehogs, the mallets live flamingoes, and the soldiers had to double
themselves up and to stand on their hands and feet, to make the arches. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her flamingo:
she succeeded in getting its body tucked away, comfortably enough,
under her arm, with its legs hanging down, but generally, just as she
had got its neck nicely straightened out, and was going to give the
hedgehog a blow with its head, it _would_ twist itself round and look
up in her face, with such a puzzled expression that she could not help
bursting out laughing: and when she had got its head down, and was
going to begin again, it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog
had unrolled itself, and was in the act of crawling away: besides all
this, there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she
wanted to send the hedgehog to, and, as the doubled-up soldiers were
always getting up and walking off to other parts of the ground, Alice
soon came to the conclusion that it was a very difficult game indeed. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The players all played at once without waiting for turns, quarrelling
all the while, and fighting for the hedgehogs; and in a very short time
the Queen was in a furious passion, and went stamping about, and
shouting “Off with his head!” or “Off with her head!” about once in a
minute. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice began to feel very uneasy: to be sure, she had not as yet had any
dispute with the Queen, but she knew that it might happen any minute,
“and then,” thought she, “what would become of me? They’re dreadfully
fond of beheading people here; the great wonder is, that there’s any
one left alive!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She was looking about for some way of escape, and wondering whether she
could get away without being seen, when she noticed a curious
appearance in the air: it puzzled her very much at first, but, after
watching it a minute or two, she made it out to be a grin, and she said
to herself “It’s the Cheshire Cat: now I shall have somebody to talk
to.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice waited till the eyes appeared, and then nodded. “It’s no use
speaking to it,” she thought, “till its ears have come, or at least one
of them.” In another minute the whole head appeared, and then Alice put
down her flamingo, and began an account of the game, feeling very glad
she had someone to listen to her. The Cat seemed to think that there
was enough of it now in sight, and no more of it appeared. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I don’t think they play at all fairly,” Alice began, in rather a
complaining tone, “and they all quarrel so dreadfully one can’t hear
oneself speak—and they don’t seem to have any rules in particular; at
least, if there are, nobody attends to them—and you’ve no idea how
confusing it is all the things being alive; for instance, there’s the
arch I’ve got to go through next walking about at the other end of the
ground—and I should have croqueted the Queen’s hedgehog just now, only
it ran away when it saw mine coming!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Not at all,” said Alice: “she’s so extremely—” Just then she noticed
that the Queen was close behind her, listening: so she went on,
“—likely to win, that it’s hardly worth while finishing the game.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Who _are_ you talking to?” said the King, going up to Alice, and
looking at the Cat’s head with great curiosity. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I don’t like the look of it at all,” said the King: “however, it may
kiss my hand if it likes.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, it must be removed,” said the King very decidedly, and he called
the Queen, who was passing at the moment, “My dear! I wish you would
have this cat removed!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties, great or
small. “Off with his head!” she said, without even looking round. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice thought she might as well go back, and see how the game was going
on, as she heard the Queen’s voice in the distance, screaming with
passion. She had already heard her sentence three of the players to be
executed for having missed their turns, and she did not like the look
of things at all, as the game was in such confusion that she never knew
whether it was her turn or not. So she went in search of her hedgehog. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog, which seemed
to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one of them with the
other: the only difficulty was, that her flamingo was gone across to
the other side of the garden, where Alice could see it trying in a
helpless sort of way to fly up into a tree. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back, the fight
was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight: “but it doesn’t
matter much,” thought Alice, “as all the arches are gone from this side
of the ground.” So she tucked it away under her arm, that it might not
escape again, and went back for a little more conversation with her
friend. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When she got back to the Cheshire Cat, she was surprised to find quite
a large crowd collected round it: there was a dispute going on between
the executioner, the King, and the Queen, who were all talking at once,
while all the rest were quite silent, and looked very uncomfortable. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to settle
the question, and they repeated their arguments to her, though, as they
all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed to make out exactly
what they said. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The executioner’s argument was, that you couldn’t cut off a head unless
there was a body to cut it off from: that he had never had to do such a
thing before, and he wasn’t going to begin at _his_ time of life. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Queen’s argument was, that if something wasn’t done about it in
less than no time she’d have everybody executed, all round. (It was
this last remark that had made the whole party look so grave and
anxious.) </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Cat’s head began fading away the moment he was gone, and, by the
time he had come back with the Duchess, it had entirely disappeared; so
the King and the executioner ran wildly up and down looking for it,
while the rest of the party went back to the game. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You can’t think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old thing!”
said the Duchess, as she tucked her arm affectionately into Alice’s,
and they walked off together. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper, and thought
to herself that perhaps it was only the pepper that had made her so
savage when they met in the kitchen. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “When _I’m_ a Duchess,” she said to herself, (not in a very hopeful
tone though), “I won’t have any pepper in my kitchen _at all_. Soup
does very well without—Maybe it’s always pepper that makes people
hot-tempered,” she went on, very much pleased at having found out a new
kind of rule, “and vinegar that makes them sour—and camomile that makes
them bitter—and—and barley-sugar and such things that make children
sweet-tempered. I only wish people knew _that_: then they wouldn’t be
so stingy about it, you know—” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She had quite forgotten the Duchess by this time, and was a little
startled when she heard her voice close to her ear. “You’re thinking
about something, my dear, and that makes you forget to talk. I can’t
tell you just now what the moral of that is, but I shall remember it in
a bit.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Tut, tut, child!” said the Duchess. “Everything’s got a moral, if only
you can find it.” And she squeezed herself up closer to Alice’s side as
she spoke. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice did not much like keeping so close to her: first, because the
Duchess was _very_ ugly; and secondly, because she was exactly the
right height to rest her chin upon Alice’s shoulder, and it was an
uncomfortably sharp chin. However, she did not like to be rude, so she
bore it as well as she could. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “’Tis so,” said the Duchess: “and the moral of that is—‘Oh, ’tis love,
’tis love, that makes the world go round!’” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Ah, well! It means much the same thing,” said the Duchess, digging her
sharp little chin into Alice’s shoulder as she added, “and the moral of
_that_ is—‘Take care of the sense, and the sounds will take care of
themselves.’” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I dare say you’re wondering why I don’t put my arm round your waist,”
the Duchess said after a pause: “the reason is, that I’m doubtful about
the temper of your flamingo. Shall I try the experiment?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Very true,” said the Duchess: “flamingoes and mustard both bite. And
the moral of that is—‘Birds of a feather flock together.’” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Of course it is,” said the Duchess, who seemed ready to agree to
everything that Alice said; “there’s a large mustard-mine near here.
And the moral of that is—‘The more there is of mine, the less there is
of yours.’” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, I know!” exclaimed Alice, who had not attended to this last
remark, “it’s a vegetable. It doesn’t look like one, but it is.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I quite agree with you,” said the Duchess; “and the moral of that
is—‘Be what you would seem to be’—or if you’d like it put more
simply—‘Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than what it might
appear to others that what you were or might have been was not
otherwise than what you had been would have appeared to them to be
otherwise.’” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I think I should understand that better,” Alice said very politely,
“if I had it written down: but I can’t quite follow it as you say it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “A cheap sort of present!” thought Alice. “I’m glad they don’t give
birthday presents like that!” But she did not venture to say it out
loud. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But here, to Alice’s great surprise, the Duchess’s voice died away,
even in the middle of her favourite word ‘moral,’ and the arm that was
linked into hers began to tremble. Alice looked up, and there stood the
Queen in front of them, with her arms folded, frowning like a
thunderstorm. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Now, I give you fair warning,” shouted the Queen, stamping on the
ground as she spoke; “either you or your head must be off, and that in
about half no time! Take your choice!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Let’s go on with the game,” the Queen said to Alice; and Alice was too
much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her back to the
croquet-ground. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The other guests had taken advantage of the Queen’s absence, and were
resting in the shade: however, the moment they saw her, they hurried
back to the game, the Queen merely remarking that a moment’s delay
would cost them their lives. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> All the time they were playing the Queen never left off quarrelling
with the other players, and shouting “Off with his head!” or “Off with
her head!” Those whom she sentenced were taken into custody by the
soldiers, who of course had to leave off being arches to do this, so
that by the end of half an hour or so there were no arches left, and
all the players, except the King, the Queen, and Alice, were in custody
and under sentence of execution. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As they walked off together, Alice heard the King say in a low voice,
to the company generally, “You are all pardoned.” “Come, _that’s_ a
good thing!” she said to herself, for she had felt quite unhappy at the
number of executions the Queen had ordered. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> They very soon came upon a Gryphon, lying fast asleep in the sun. (If
you don’t know what a Gryphon is, look at the picture.) “Up, lazy
thing!” said the Queen, “and take this young lady to see the Mock
Turtle, and to hear his history. I must go back and see after some
executions I have ordered;” and she walked off, leaving Alice alone
with the Gryphon. Alice did not quite like the look of the creature,
but on the whole she thought it would be quite as safe to stay with it
as to go after that savage Queen: so she waited. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes: then it watched the Queen till
she was out of sight: then it chuckled. “What fun!” said the Gryphon,
half to itself, half to Alice. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Everybody says ‘come on!’ here,” thought Alice, as she went slowly
after it: “I never was so ordered about in all my life, never!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> They had not gone far before they saw the Mock Turtle in the distance,
sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock, and, as they came
nearer, Alice could hear him sighing as if his heart would break. She
pitied him deeply. “What is his sorrow?” she asked the Gryphon, and the
Gryphon answered, very nearly in the same words as before, “It’s all
his fancy, that: he hasn’t got no sorrow, you know. Come on!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> So they went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked at them with large eyes
full of tears, but said nothing. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I’ll tell it her,” said the Mock Turtle in a deep, hollow tone: “sit
down, both of you, and don’t speak a word till I’ve finished.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes. Alice thought to
herself, “I don’t see how he can _ever_ finish, if he doesn’t begin.”
But she waited patiently. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only by an
occasional exclamation of “Hjckrrh!” from the Gryphon, and the constant
heavy sobbing of the Mock Turtle. Alice was very nearly getting up and
saying, “Thank you, sir, for your interesting story,” but she could not
help thinking there _must_ be more to come, so she sat still and said
nothing. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “When we were little,” the Mock Turtle went on at last, more calmly,
though still sobbing a little now and then, “we went to school in the
sea. The master was an old Turtle—we used to call him Tortoise—” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple
question,” added the Gryphon; and then they both sat silent and looked
at poor Alice, who felt ready to sink into the earth. At last the
Gryphon said to the Mock Turtle, “Drive on, old fellow! Don’t be all
day about it!” and he went on in these words: </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Ah! then yours wasn’t a really good school,” said the Mock Turtle in a
tone of great relief. “Now at _ours_ they had at the end of the bill,
‘French, music, _and washing_—extra.’” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Reeling and Writhing, of course, to begin with,” the Mock Turtle
replied; “and then the different branches of Arithmetic—Ambition,
Distraction, Uglification, and Derision.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise. “What! Never heard of
uglifying!” it exclaimed. “You know what to beautify is, I suppose?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about it, so
she turned to the Mock Turtle, and said “What else had you to learn?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, there was Mystery,” the Mock Turtle replied, counting off the
subjects on his flappers, “—Mystery, ancient and modern, with
Seaography: then Drawling—the Drawling-master was an old conger-eel,
that used to come once a week: _he_ taught us Drawling, Stretching, and
Fainting in Coils.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I never went to him,” the Mock Turtle said with a sigh: “he taught
Laughing and Grief, they used to say.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “So he did, so he did,” said the Gryphon, sighing in his turn; and both
creatures hid their faces in their paws. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This was quite a new idea to Alice, and she thought it over a little
before she made her next remark. “Then the eleventh day must have been
a holiday?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and drew the back of one flapper across
his eyes. He looked at Alice, and tried to speak, but for a minute or
two sobs choked his voice. “Same as if he had a bone in his throat,”
said the Gryphon: and it set to work shaking him and punching him in
the back. At last the Mock Turtle recovered his voice, and, with tears
running down his cheeks, he went on again:— </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You may not have lived much under the sea—” (“I haven’t,” said
Alice)—“and perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster—”
(Alice began to say “I once tasted—” but checked herself hastily, and
said “No, never”) “—so you can have no idea what a delightful thing a
Lobster Quadrille is!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Two lines!” cried the Mock Turtle. “Seals, turtles, salmon, and so on;
then, when you’ve cleared all the jelly-fish out of the way—” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Back to land again, and that’s all the first figure,” said the Mock
Turtle, suddenly dropping his voice; and the two creatures, who had
been jumping about like mad things all this time, sat down again very
sadly and quietly, and looked at Alice. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Come, let’s try the first figure!” said the Mock Turtle to the
Gryphon. “We can do without lobsters, you know. Which shall sing?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> So they began solemnly dancing round and round Alice, every now and
then treading on her toes when they passed too close, and waving their
forepaws to mark the time, while the Mock Turtle sang this, very slowly
and sadly:— </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Will you walk a little faster?” said a whiting to a snail.
“There’s a porpoise close behind us, and he’s treading on my tail.
See how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance!
They are waiting on the shingle—will you come and join the dance?
Will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, will you join the dance?
Will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, won’t you join the dance? </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You can really have no notion how delightful it will be
When they take us up and throw us, with the lobsters, out to sea!”
But the snail replied “Too far, too far!” and gave a look askance—
Said he thanked the whiting kindly, but he would not join the dance.
Would not, could not, would not, could not, would not join the dance.
Would not, could not, would not, could not, could not join the dance. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “What matters it how far we go?” his scaly friend replied.
“There is another shore, you know, upon the other side.
The further off from England the nearer is to France—
Then turn not pale, beloved snail, but come and join the dance.
Will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, will you join the dance?
Will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, won’t you join the dance?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Thank you, it’s a very interesting dance to watch,” said Alice,
feeling very glad that it was over at last: “and I do so like that
curious song about the whiting!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I don’t know where Dinn may be,” said the Mock Turtle, “but if you’ve
seen them so often, of course you know what they’re like.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You’re wrong about the crumbs,” said the Mock Turtle: “crumbs would
all wash off in the sea. But they _have_ their tails in their mouths;
and the reason is—” here the Mock Turtle yawned and shut his
eyes.—“Tell her about the reason and all that,” he said to the Gryphon. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The reason is,” said the Gryphon, “that they _would_ go with the
lobsters to the dance. So they got thrown out to sea. So they had to
fall a long way. So they got their tails fast in their mouths. So they
couldn’t get them out again. That’s all.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I can tell you more than that, if you like,” said the Gryphon. “Do you
know why it’s called a whiting?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Boots and shoes under the sea,” the Gryphon went on in a deep voice,
“are done with a whiting. Now you know.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If I’d been the whiting,” said Alice, whose thoughts were still
running on the song, “I’d have said to the porpoise, ‘Keep back,
please: we don’t want _you_ with us!’” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “They were obliged to have him with them,” the Mock Turtle said: “no
wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Of course not,” said the Mock Turtle: “why, if a fish came to _me_,
and told me he was going a journey, I should say ‘With what porpoise?’” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I mean what I say,” the Mock Turtle replied in an offended tone. And
the Gryphon added “Come, let’s hear some of _your_ adventures.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I could tell you my adventures—beginning from this morning,” said
Alice a little timidly: “but it’s no use going back to yesterday,
because I was a different person then.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when she first
saw the White Rabbit. She was a little nervous about it just at first,
the two creatures got so close to her, one on each side, and opened
their eyes and mouths so _very_ wide, but she gained courage as she
went on. Her listeners were perfectly quiet till she got to the part
about her repeating “_You are old, Father William_,” to the
Caterpillar, and the words all coming different, and then the Mock
Turtle drew a long breath, and said “That’s very curious.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It all came different!” the Mock Turtle repeated thoughtfully. “I
should like to hear her try and repeat something now. Tell her to
begin.” He looked at the Gryphon as if he thought it had some kind of
authority over Alice. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “How the creatures order one about, and make one repeat lessons!”
thought Alice; “I might as well be at school at once.” However, she got
up, and began to repeat it, but her head was so full of the Lobster
Quadrille, that she hardly knew what she was saying, and the words came
very queer indeed:— </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “’Tis the voice of the Lobster; I heard him declare,
“You have baked me too brown, I must sugar my hair.”
As a duck with its eyelids, so he with his nose
Trims his belt and his buttons, and turns out his toes.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> [later editions continued as follows
When the sands are all dry, he is gay as a lark,
And will talk in contemptuous tones of the Shark,
But, when the tide rises and sharks are around,
His voice has a timid and tremulous sound.] </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice said nothing; she had sat down with her face in her hands,
wondering if anything would _ever_ happen in a natural way again. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It’s the first position in dancing.” Alice said; but was dreadfully
puzzled by the whole thing, and longed to change the subject. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice did not dare to disobey, though she felt sure it would all come
wrong, and she went on in a trembling voice:— </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> [later editions continued as follows
The Panther took pie-crust, and gravy, and meat,
While the Owl had the dish as its share of the treat.
When the pie was all finished, the Owl, as a boon,
Was kindly permitted to pocket the spoon:
While the Panther received knife and fork with a growl,
And concluded the banquet—] </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “What _is_ the use of repeating all that stuff,” the Mock Turtle
interrupted, “if you don’t explain it as you go on? It’s by far the
most confusing thing _I_ ever heard!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Shall we try another figure of the Lobster Quadrille?” the Gryphon
went on. “Or would you like the Mock Turtle to sing you a song?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, a song, please, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind,” Alice
replied, so eagerly that the Gryphon said, in a rather offended tone,
“Hm! No accounting for tastes! Sing her ‘_Turtle Soup_,’ will you, old
fellow?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Beautiful Soup, so rich and green,
Waiting in a hot tureen!
Who for such dainties would not stoop?
Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
    Beau—ootiful Soo—oop!
    Beau—ootiful Soo—oop!
Soo—oop of the e—e—evening,
    Beautiful, beautiful Soup! </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Beautiful Soup! Who cares for fish,
Game, or any other dish?
Who would not give all else for two p
ennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
    Beau—ootiful Soo—oop!
    Beau—ootiful Soo—oop!
Soo—oop of the e—e—evening,
    Beautiful, beauti—FUL SOUP!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Chorus again!” cried the Gryphon, and the Mock Turtle had just begun
to repeat it, when a cry of “The trial’s beginning!” was heard in the
distance. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Come on!” cried the Gryphon, and, taking Alice by the hand, it hurried
off, without waiting for the end of the song. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “What trial is it?” Alice panted as she ran; but the Gryphon only
answered “Come on!” and ran the faster, while more and more faintly
came, carried on the breeze that followed them, the melancholy words:— </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The King and Queen of Hearts were seated on their throne when they
arrived, with a great crowd assembled about them—all sorts of little
birds and beasts, as well as the whole pack of cards: the Knave was
standing before them, in chains, with a soldier on each side to guard
him; and near the King was the White Rabbit, with a trumpet in one
hand, and a scroll of parchment in the other. In the very middle of the
court was a table, with a large dish of tarts upon it: they looked so
good, that it made Alice quite hungry to look at them—“I wish they’d
get the trial done,” she thought, “and hand round the refreshments!”
But there seemed to be no chance of this, so she began looking at
everything about her, to pass away the time. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice had never been in a court of justice before, but she had read
about them in books, and she was quite pleased to find that she knew
the name of nearly everything there. “That’s the judge,” she said to
herself, “because of his great wig.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The judge, by the way, was the King; and as he wore his crown over the
wig, (look at the frontispiece if you want to see how he did it,) he
did not look at all comfortable, and it was certainly not becoming. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And that’s the jury-box,” thought Alice, “and those twelve creatures,”
(she was obliged to say “creatures,” you see, because some of them were
animals, and some were birds,) “I suppose they are the jurors.” She
said this last word two or three times over to herself, being rather
proud of it: for she thought, and rightly too, that very few little
girls of her age knew the meaning of it at all. However, “jury-men”
would have done just as well. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The twelve jurors were all writing very busily on slates. “What are
they doing?” Alice whispered to the Gryphon. “They can’t have anything
to put down yet, before the trial’s begun.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “They’re putting down their names,” the Gryphon whispered in reply,
“for fear they should forget them before the end of the trial.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Stupid things!” Alice began in a loud, indignant voice, but she
stopped hastily, for the White Rabbit cried out, “Silence in the
court!” and the King put on his spectacles and looked anxiously round,
to make out who was talking. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice could see, as well as if she were looking over their shoulders,
that all the jurors were writing down “stupid things!” on their slates,
and she could even make out that one of them didn’t know how to spell
“stupid,” and that he had to ask his neighbour to tell him. “A nice
muddle their slates’ll be in before the trial’s over!” thought Alice. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> One of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked. This of course, Alice
could _not_ stand, and she went round the court and got behind him, and
very soon found an opportunity of taking it away. She did it so quickly
that the poor little juror (it was Bill, the Lizard) could not make out
at all what had become of it; so, after hunting all about for it, he
was obliged to write with one finger for the rest of the day; and this
was of very little use, as it left no mark on the slate. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> On this the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet, and then
unrolled the parchment scroll, and read as follows:— </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The Queen of Hearts, she made some tarts,
    All on a summer day:
The Knave of Hearts, he stole those tarts,
    And took them quite away!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Call the first witness,” said the King; and the White Rabbit blew
three blasts on the trumpet, and called out, “First witness!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The first witness was the Hatter. He came in with a teacup in one hand
and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other. “I beg pardon, your
Majesty,” he began, “for bringing these in: but I hadn’t quite finished
my tea when I was sent for.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Hatter looked at the March Hare, who had followed him into the
court, arm-in-arm with the Dormouse. “Fourteenth of March, I _think_ it
was,” he said. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Write that down,” the King said to the jury, and the jury eagerly
wrote down all three dates on their slates, and then added them up, and
reduced the answer to shillings and pence. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This did not seem to encourage the witness at all: he kept shifting
from one foot to the other, looking uneasily at the Queen, and in his
confusion he bit a large piece out of his teacup instead of the
bread-and-butter. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Just at this moment Alice felt a very curious sensation, which puzzled
her a good deal until she made out what it was: she was beginning to
grow larger again, and she thought at first she would get up and leave
the court; but on second thoughts she decided to remain where she was
as long as there was room for her. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, but _I_ grow at a reasonable pace,” said the Dormouse: “not in
that ridiculous fashion.” And he got up very sulkily and crossed over
to the other side of the court. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> All this time the Queen had never left off staring at the Hatter, and,
just as the Dormouse crossed the court, she said to one of the officers
of the court, “Bring me the list of the singers in the last concert!”
on which the wretched Hatter trembled so, that he shook both his shoes
off. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I’m a poor man, your Majesty,” the Hatter began, in a trembling voice,
“—and I hadn’t begun my tea—not above a week or so—and what with the
bread-and-butter getting so thin—and the twinkling of the tea—” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, at any rate, the Dormouse said—” the Hatter went on, looking
anxiously round to see if he would deny it too: but the Dormouse denied
nothing, being fast asleep. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The miserable Hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter, and went
down on one knee. “I’m a poor man, your Majesty,” he began. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Here one of the guinea-pigs cheered, and was immediately suppressed by
the officers of the court. (As that is rather a hard word, I will just
explain to you how it was done. They had a large canvas bag, which tied
up at the mouth with strings: into this they slipped the guinea-pig,
head first, and then sat upon it.) </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I’m glad I’ve seen that done,” thought Alice. “I’ve so often read in
the newspapers, at the end of trials, “There was some attempts at
applause, which was immediately suppressed by the officers of the
court,” and I never understood what it meant till now.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I’d rather finish my tea,” said the Hatter, with an anxious look at
the Queen, who was reading the list of singers. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You may go,” said the King, and the Hatter hurriedly left the court,
without even waiting to put his shoes on. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “—and just take his head off outside,” the Queen added to one of the
officers: but the Hatter was out of sight before the officer could get
to the door. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The next witness was the Duchess’s cook. She carried the pepper-box in
her hand, and Alice guessed who it was, even before she got into the
court, by the way the people near the door began sneezing all at once. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, if I must, I must,” the King said, with a melancholy air, and,
after folding his arms and frowning at the cook till his eyes were
nearly out of sight, he said in a deep voice, “What are tarts made of?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Collar that Dormouse,” the Queen shrieked out. “Behead that Dormouse!
Turn that Dormouse out of court! Suppress him! Pinch him! Off with his
whiskers!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> For some minutes the whole court was in confusion, getting the Dormouse
turned out, and, by the time they had settled down again, the cook had
disappeared. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Never mind!” said the King, with an air of great relief. “Call the
next witness.” And he added in an undertone to the Queen, “Really, my
dear, _you_ must cross-examine the next witness. It quite makes my
forehead ache!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice watched the White Rabbit as he fumbled over the list, feeling
very curious to see what the next witness would be like, “—for they
haven’t got much evidence _yet_,” she said to herself. Imagine her
surprise, when the White Rabbit read out, at the top of his shrill
little voice, the name “Alice!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Here!” cried Alice, quite forgetting in the flurry of the moment how
large she had grown in the last few minutes, and she jumped up in such
a hurry that she tipped over the jury-box with the edge of her skirt,
upsetting all the jurymen on to the heads of the crowd below, and there
they lay sprawling about, reminding her very much of a globe of
goldfish she had accidentally upset the week before. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, I _beg_ your pardon!” she exclaimed in a tone of great dismay, and
began picking them up again as quickly as she could, for the accident
of the goldfish kept running in her head, and she had a vague sort of
idea that they must be collected at once and put back into the
jury-box, or they would die. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The trial cannot proceed,” said the King in a very grave voice, “until
all the jurymen are back in their proper places—_all_,” he repeated
with great emphasis, looking hard at Alice as he said so. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Alice looked at the jury-box, and saw that, in her haste, she had put
the Lizard in head downwards, and the poor little thing was waving its
tail about in a melancholy way, being quite unable to move. She soon
got it out again, and put it right; “not that it signifies much,” she
said to herself; “I should think it would be _quite_ as much use in the
trial one way up as the other.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As soon as the jury had a little recovered from the shock of being
upset, and their slates and pencils had been found and handed back to
them, they set to work very diligently to write out a history of the
accident, all except the Lizard, who seemed too much overcome to do
anything but sit with its mouth open, gazing up into the roof of the
court. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That’s very important,” the King said, turning to the jury. They were
just beginning to write this down on their slates, when the White
Rabbit interrupted: “_Un_important, your Majesty means, of course,” he
said in a very respectful tone, but frowning and making faces at him as
he spoke. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Some of the jury wrote it down “important,” and some “unimportant.”
Alice could see this, as she was near enough to look over their slates;
“but it doesn’t matter a bit,” she thought to herself. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> At this moment the King, who had been for some time busily writing in
his note-book, cackled out “Silence!” and read out from his book, “Rule
Forty-two. _All persons more than a mile high to leave the court_.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The King turned pale, and shut his note-book hastily. “Consider your
verdict,” he said to the jury, in a low, trembling voice. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “There’s more evidence to come yet, please your Majesty,” said the
White Rabbit, jumping up in a great hurry; “this paper has just been
picked up.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I haven’t opened it yet,” said the White Rabbit, “but it seems to be a
letter, written by the prisoner to—to somebody.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It isn’t directed at all,” said the White Rabbit; “in fact, there’s
nothing written on the _outside_.” He unfolded the paper as he spoke,
and added “It isn’t a letter, after all: it’s a set of verses.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Please your Majesty,” said the Knave, “I didn’t write it, and they
can’t prove I did: there’s no name signed at the end.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If you didn’t sign it,” said the King, “that only makes the matter
worse. You _must_ have meant some mischief, or else you’d have signed
your name like an honest man.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> There was a general clapping of hands at this: it was the first really
clever thing the King had said that day. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “They told me you had been to her,
    And mentioned me to him:
She gave me a good character,
    But said I could not swim. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He sent them word I had not gone
    (We know it to be true):
If she should push the matter on,
    What would become of you? </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I gave her one, they gave him two,
    You gave us three or more;
They all returned from him to you,
    Though they were mine before. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> If I or she should chance to be
    Involved in this affair,
He trusts to you to set them free,
    Exactly as we were. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> My notion was that you had been
    (Before she had this fit)
An obstacle that came between
    Him, and ourselves, and it. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Don’t let him know she liked them best,
    For this must ever be
A secret, kept from all the rest,
    Between yourself and me.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That’s the most important piece of evidence we’ve heard yet,” said the
King, rubbing his hands; “so now let the jury—” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If any one of them can explain it,” said Alice, (she had grown so
large in the last few minutes that she wasn’t a bit afraid of
interrupting him,) “I’ll give him sixpence. _I_ don’t believe there’s
an atom of meaning in it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The jury all wrote down on their slates, “_She_ doesn’t believe there’s
an atom of meaning in it,” but none of them attempted to explain the
paper. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If there’s no meaning in it,” said the King, “that saves a world of
trouble, you know, as we needn’t try to find any. And yet I don’t
know,” he went on, spreading out the verses on his knee, and looking at
them with one eye; “I seem to see some meaning in them, after all.
“—_said I could not swim_—” you can’t swim, can you?” he added, turning
to the Knave. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Knave shook his head sadly. “Do I look like it?” he said. (Which he
certainly did _not_, being made entirely of cardboard.) </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “All right, so far,” said the King, and he went on muttering over the
verses to himself: “‘_We know it to be true_—’ that’s the jury, of
course—‘_I gave her one, they gave him two_—’ why, that must be what he
did with the tarts, you know—” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Why, there they are!” said the King triumphantly, pointing to the
tarts on the table. “Nothing can be clearer than _that_. Then
again—‘_before she had this fit_—’ you never had fits, my dear, I
think?” he said to the Queen. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Never!” said the Queen furiously, throwing an inkstand at the Lizard
as she spoke. (The unfortunate little Bill had left off writing on his
slate with one finger, as he found it made no mark; but he now hastily
began again, using the ink, that was trickling down his face, as long
as it lasted.) </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Then the words don’t _fit_ you,” said the King, looking round the
court with a smile. There was a dead silence. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It’s a pun!” the King added in an offended tone, and everybody
laughed, “Let the jury consider their verdict,” the King said, for
about the twentieth time that day. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Who cares for you?” said Alice, (she had grown to her full size by
this time.) “You’re nothing but a pack of cards!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> At this the whole pack rose up into the air, and came flying down upon
her: she gave a little scream, half of fright and half of anger, and
tried to beat them off, and found herself lying on the bank, with her
head in the lap of her sister, who was gently brushing away some dead
leaves that had fluttered down from the trees upon her face. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, I’ve had such a curious dream!” said Alice, and she told her
sister, as well as she could remember them, all these strange
Adventures of hers that you have just been reading about; and when she
had finished, her sister kissed her, and said, “It _was_ a curious
dream, dear, certainly: but now run in to your tea; it’s getting late.”
So Alice got up and ran off, thinking while she ran, as well she might,
what a wonderful dream it had been. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But her sister sat still just as she left her, leaning her head on her
hand, watching the setting sun, and thinking of little Alice and all
her wonderful Adventures, till she too began dreaming after a fashion,
and this was her dream:— </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> First, she dreamed of little Alice herself, and once again the tiny
hands were clasped upon her knee, and the bright eager eyes were
looking up into hers—she could hear the very tones of her voice, and
see that queer little toss of her head to keep back the wandering hair
that _would_ always get into her eyes—and still as she listened, or
seemed to listen, the whole place around her became alive with the
strange creatures of her little sister’s dream. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The long grass rustled at her feet as the White Rabbit hurried by—the
frightened Mouse splashed his way through the neighbouring pool—she
could hear the rattle of the teacups as the March Hare and his friends
shared their never-ending meal, and the shrill voice of the Queen
ordering off her unfortunate guests to execution—once more the pig-baby
was sneezing on the Duchess’s knee, while plates and dishes crashed
around it—once more the shriek of the Gryphon, the squeaking of the
Lizard’s slate-pencil, and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs,
filled the air, mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable Mock
Turtle. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> So she sat on, with closed eyes, and half believed herself in
Wonderland, though she knew she had but to open them again, and all
would change to dull reality—the grass would be only rustling in the
wind, and the pool rippling to the waving of the reeds—the rattling
teacups would change to tinkling sheep-bells, and the Queen’s shrill
cries to the voice of the shepherd boy—and the sneeze of the baby, the
shriek of the Gryphon, and all the other queer noises, would change
(she knew) to the confused clamour of the busy farm-yard—while the
lowing of the cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock
Turtle’s heavy sobs. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Lastly, she pictured to herself how this same little sister of hers
would, in the after-time, be herself a grown woman; and how she would
keep, through all her riper years, the simple and loving heart of her
childhood: and how she would gather about her other little children,
and make _their_ eyes bright and eager with many a strange tale,
perhaps even with the dream of Wonderland of long ago: and how she
would feel with all their simple sorrows, and find a pleasure in all
their simple joys, remembering her own child-life, and the happy summer
days.</RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0
a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
The quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog.
THE QUICK BROWN FOX JUMPED OVER THE LAZY DOG. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> hi, how are you doing?	i'm fine. how about yourself?
i'm fine. how about yourself?	i'm pretty good. thanks for asking.
i'm pretty good. thanks for asking.	no problem. so how have you been?
no problem. so how have you been?	i've been great. what about you?
i've been great. what about you?	i've been good. i'm in school right now.
i've been good. i'm in school right now.	what school do you go to?
what school do you go to?	i go to pcc.
i go to pcc.	do you like it there?
do you like it there?	it's okay. it's a really big campus.
it's okay. it's a really big campus.	good luck with school.
good luck with school.	thank you very much.
how's it going?	i'm doing well. how about you?
i'm doing well. how about you?	never better, thanks.
never better, thanks.	so how have you been lately?
so how have you been lately?	i've actually been pretty good. you?
i've actually been pretty good. you?	i'm actually in school right now.
i'm actually in school right now.	which school do you attend?
which school do you attend?	i'm attending pcc right now.
i'm attending pcc right now.	are you enjoying it there?
are you enjoying it there?	it's not bad. there are a lot of people there.
it's not bad. there are a lot of people there.	good luck with that.
good luck with that.	thanks.
how are you doing today?	i'm doing great. what about you?
i'm doing great. what about you?	i'm absolutely lovely, thank you.
i'm absolutely lovely, thank you.	everything's been good with you?
everything's been good with you?	i haven't been better. how about yourself?
i haven't been better. how about yourself?	i started school recently.
i started school recently.	where are you going to school?
where are you going to school?	i'm going to pcc.
i'm going to pcc.	how do you like it so far?
how do you like it so far?	i like it so far. my classes are pretty good right now.
i like it so far. my classes are pretty good right now.	i wish you luck.
it's an ugly day today.	i know. i think it may rain.
i know. i think it may rain.	it's the middle of summer, it shouldn't rain today.
it's the middle of summer, it shouldn't rain today.	that would be weird.
that would be weird.	yeah, especially since it's ninety degrees outside.
yeah, especially since it's ninety degrees outside.	i know, it would be horrible if it rained and it was hot outside.
i know, it would be horrible if it rained and it was hot outside.	yes, it would be. 
yes, it would be. 	i really wish it wasn't so hot every day. 
i really wish it wasn't so hot every day. 	me too. i can't wait until winter.
me too. i can't wait until winter.	i like winter too, but sometimes it gets too cold.
i like winter too, but sometimes it gets too cold.	i'd rather be cold than hot.
i'd rather be cold than hot.	me too.
it doesn't look very nice outside today.	you're right. i think it's going to rain later.
you're right. i think it's going to rain later.	in the middle of the summer, it shouldn't be raining.
in the middle of the summer, it shouldn't be raining.	that wouldn't seem right.
that wouldn't seem right.	considering that it's over ninety degrees outside, that would be weird.
considering that it's over ninety degrees outside, that would be weird.	exactly, it wouldn't be nice if it started raining. it's too hot.
exactly, it wouldn't be nice if it started raining. it's too hot.	i know, you're absolutely right.
i know, you're absolutely right.	i wish it would cool off one day.
i wish it would cool off one day.	that's how i feel, i want winter to come soon.
that's how i feel, i want winter to come soon.	i enjoy the winter, but it gets really cold sometimes.
i enjoy the winter, but it gets really cold sometimes.	i know what you mean, but i'd rather be cold than hot.
i know what you mean, but i'd rather be cold than hot.	that's exactly how i feel.
i wish it was a nicer day today.	that is true. i hope it doesn't rain.
that is true. i hope it doesn't rain.	it wouldn't rain in the middle of the summer.
it wouldn't rain in the middle of the summer.	it wouldn't seem right if it started raining right now.
it wouldn't seem right if it started raining right now.	it would be weird if it started raining in ninety degree weather.
it would be weird if it started raining in ninety degree weather.	any rain right now would be pointless.
any rain right now would be pointless.	that's right, it really would be.
that's right, it really would be.	i want it to cool down some.
i want it to cool down some.	i know what you mean, i can't wait until it's winter.
i know what you mean, i can't wait until it's winter.	winter is great. i wish it didn't get so cold sometimes though.
winter is great. i wish it didn't get so cold sometimes though.	i would rather deal with the winter than the summer.
it's such a nice day.	yes, it is.
yes, it is.	it looks like it may rain soon.
it looks like it may rain soon.	yes, and i hope that it does.
yes, and i hope that it does.	why is that?
why is that?	i really love how rain clears the air.
i really love how rain clears the air.	me too. it always smells so fresh after it rains.
me too. it always smells so fresh after it rains.	yes, but i love the night air after it rains.
yes, but i love the night air after it rains.	really? why is it?
really? why is it?	because you can see the stars perfectly.
because you can see the stars perfectly.	i really hope it rains today.
i really hope it rains today.	yeah, me too.
isn't it a nice day?	it really is.
it really is.	it seems that it may rain today.
it seems that it may rain today.	hopefully it will.
hopefully it will.	how come?
how come?	i like how clear the sky gets after it rains.
i like how clear the sky gets after it rains.	i feel the same way. it smells so good after it rains.
i feel the same way. it smells so good after it rains.	i especially love the night air when it rains.
i especially love the night air when it rains.	really? why?
really? why?	the stars look so much closer after it rains.
the stars look so much closer after it rains.	i really want it to rain today.
i really want it to rain today.	yeah, so do i.
don't you think it's nice out?	yes, i think so too.
yes, i think so too.	i think that it's going to rain.
i think that it's going to rain.	i hope that it does rain.
i hope that it does rain.	you like the rain?
you like the rain?	the sky looks so clean after it rains. i love it.
the sky looks so clean after it rains. i love it.	i understand. rain does make it smell cleaner.
i understand. rain does make it smell cleaner.	i love most how it is at night after it rains.
i love most how it is at night after it rains.	how come?
how come?	you can see the stars so much more clearly after it rains.
you can see the stars so much more clearly after it rains.	i would love for it to rain today.
i really want to go to the beach this weekend.	that sounds like fun. what's the weather going to be like?
that sounds like fun. what's the weather going to be like?	i heard that it's going to be warm this weekend.
i heard that it's going to be warm this weekend.	is it going to be perfect beach weather?
is it going to be perfect beach weather?	i believe so.
i believe so.	good. i hope it doesn't cool off this weekend.
good. i hope it doesn't cool off this weekend.	i know. i really want to go to the beach.
i know. i really want to go to the beach.	but you know that california weather is really unpredictable.
but you know that california weather is really unpredictable.	you're right. one minute it's hot, and then the next minute it's cold.
you're right. one minute it's hot, and then the next minute it's cold.	i really wish the weather would just stay the same.
i really wish the weather would just stay the same.	i do too. that way we can have our activities planned ahead of time.
i do too. that way we can have our activities planned ahead of time.	yeah, that would make things a lot easier.
i would like to take a trip to the beach this weekend.	a trip to the beach would be fun. how is the weather going to be?
a trip to the beach would be fun. how is the weather going to be?	the forecast says that it will be warm on the weekend.
the forecast says that it will be warm on the weekend.	so do you think it'll be perfect weather for the beach?
so do you think it'll be perfect weather for the beach?	it sounds like it will be.
it sounds like it will be.	i really hope it doesn't get cold.
i really hope it doesn't get cold.	that would ruin things, i want to go so badly.
that would ruin things, i want to go so badly.	the weather in california is unpredictable, so you never know.
the weather in california is unpredictable, so you never know.	that is true. the weather is constantly changing.
that is true. the weather is constantly changing.	it would be nice if the weather would never change.
it would be nice if the weather would never change.	that would be great, then we could plan things sooner.
that would be great, then we could plan things sooner.	true. predictable weather would make life easier.
it would be nice to go to the beach sometime this weekend.	what's the weather going to be like? i may want to go too.
what's the weather going to be like? i may want to go too.	the weather this weekend is supposed to be warm.
the weather this weekend is supposed to be warm.	will it be good beach weather?
will it be good beach weather?	i think it will be.
i think it will be.	it wouldn't be good if it got cold this weekend.
it wouldn't be good if it got cold this weekend.	i want this trip to be perfect, i hope it stays warm.
i want this trip to be perfect, i hope it stays warm.	this california weather is so uncertain, it's impossible to know what'll happen.
this california weather is so uncertain, it's impossible to know what'll happen.	i know. every day the weather seems different.
i know. every day the weather seems different.	i would love it if it wasn't always so unpredictable.
i would love it if it wasn't always so unpredictable.	that would make it easier for us to make plans.
hello, may i speak to alice please?	this is she. how's it going?
this is she. how's it going?	i've been trying to call you all day.
i've been trying to call you all day.	sorry about that. i was cleaning up.
sorry about that. i was cleaning up.	it's okay.
it's okay.	so what were you calling me about?
so what were you calling me about?	oh, i just wanted to see if you wanted to hang out tomorrow.
oh, i just wanted to see if you wanted to hang out tomorrow.	sure, what did you want to do?
sure, what did you want to do?	maybe we can go see a movie or something.
maybe we can go see a movie or something.	that sounds like fun. let's do it.
that sounds like fun. let's do it.	i'll see you tomorrow then.
i'll see you tomorrow then.	see you then. goodbye.
hi, how are you. is alice there?	speaking. what's up?
speaking. what's up?	why haven't you answered the phone?
why haven't you answered the phone?	my bad, i had chores to do.
my bad, i had chores to do.	that's all right.
that's all right.	what was the reason for your call?
what was the reason for your call?	i want to do something tomorrow with you.
i want to do something tomorrow with you.	sounds good. what did you have in mind?
sounds good. what did you have in mind?	i was thinking about seeing a movie.
i was thinking about seeing a movie.	okay, let's go see a movie.
okay, let's go see a movie.	until then.
until then.	talk to you later.
is alice available?	you're talking to her.
you're talking to her.	i've called you a hundred times today.
i've called you a hundred times today.	i was busy doing something. i apologize.
i was busy doing something. i apologize.	no problem.
no problem.	did you need something?
did you need something?	do you want to do something tomorrow?
do you want to do something tomorrow?	is there somewhere special you wanted to go?
is there somewhere special you wanted to go?	how about a movie?
how about a movie?	a movie sounds good.
a movie sounds good.	call me tomorrow then.
have you seen the new girl in school?	no, i haven't.
no, i haven't.	she's really pretty.
she's really pretty.	describe her to me.
describe her to me.	she's not too tall.
she's not too tall.	well, how tall is she?
well, how tall is she?	she's about five feet even.
she's about five feet even.	what does she look like, though?
what does she look like, though?	she has pretty light brown eyes.
she has pretty light brown eyes.	i may know which girl you're talking about.
i may know which girl you're talking about.	so you have seen her around?
so you have seen her around?	yes, i have.
there's a new girl in school, have you seen her yet?	i haven't seen her yet.
i haven't seen her yet.	i think that she is very pretty.
i think that she is very pretty.	tell me how she looks.
tell me how she looks.	she's kind of short.
she's kind of short.	what height is she?
what height is she?	she's probably about five feet.
she's probably about five feet.	that's nice, but tell me what she looks like.
that's nice, but tell me what she looks like.	the first thing i noticed was her beautiful brown eyes.
the first thing i noticed was her beautiful brown eyes.	i think i might've bumped into her before.
i think i might've bumped into her before.	are you telling me that you've seen her before?
are you telling me that you've seen her before?	i believe so.
have you met the new girl?	no. have you?
no. have you?	she's one of the prettiest girls at the school.
she's one of the prettiest girls at the school.	what does she look like?
what does she look like?	well, she's quite short.
well, she's quite short.	how tall would you say that she is?
how tall would you say that she is?	i would say she's only five feet.
i would say she's only five feet.	what about her facial features?
what about her facial features?	she has light brown eyes, absolutely beautiful.
she has light brown eyes, absolutely beautiful.	i think i know who you're talking about.
i think i know who you're talking about.	have you seen her?
why weren't you at school yesterday?	i wasn't really feeling well.
i wasn't really feeling well.	what was wrong with you?
what was wrong with you?	my stomach was upset.
my stomach was upset.	do you feel better now?
do you feel better now?	i don't really feel too well yet.
i don't really feel too well yet.	do you want anything to make you feel better?
do you want anything to make you feel better?	no, thanks. i already took some medicine.
no, thanks. i already took some medicine.	i hope you feel better.
i hope you feel better.	thank you.
what reason do you have for missing school?	i was sick.
i was sick.	how were you sick?
how were you sick?	i had a stomachache.
i had a stomachache.	did it get any better?
did it get any better?	i'm still feeling under the weather.
i'm still feeling under the weather.	would you like anything for your stomach?
would you like anything for your stomach?	i took something earlier.
i took something earlier.	get better.
get better.	thanks a lot.
why didn't you go to school yesterday?	i stayed home because i wasn't feeling well.
i stayed home because i wasn't feeling well.	what was your problem?
what was your problem?	my stomach was bothering me.
my stomach was bothering me.	are you feeling any better?
are you feeling any better?	i'm still feeling a little sick.
i'm still feeling a little sick.	i'm going to the store, would you like any pepto bismol?
i'm going to the store, would you like any pepto bismol?	that's okay.
that's okay.	i hope you feel better.
did you hear the good news?	no, i haven't.
no, i haven't.	i got a promotion at my job.
i got a promotion at my job.	did you really?
did you really?	seriously, i am so excited.
seriously, i am so excited.	well, congratulations.
well, congratulations.	thank you.
thank you.	i'm so happy for you.
i'm so happy for you.	really?
really?	yes. you really deserved this.
yes. you really deserved this.	you think so?
you think so?	yes. good for you.
have you heard my good news?	you haven't told me anything yet.
you haven't told me anything yet.	i got a promotion at work earlier this week.
i got a promotion at work earlier this week.	is that right?
is that right?	it's the truth. i am really happy.
it's the truth. i am really happy.	congratulations on your promotion.
congratulations on your promotion.	thank you very much.
thank you very much.	i am really excited for you.
i am really excited for you.	are you really?
are you really?	i'm serious. you deserved this promotion.
i'm serious. you deserved this promotion.	is that what you really think?
is that what you really think?	yes, i do.
i haven't told you what happened yet, have i?	i haven't heard anything.
i haven't heard anything.	my boss offered me a promotion, and i took it.
my boss offered me a promotion, and i took it.	are you serious?
are you serious?	yes, i am really excited.
yes, i am really excited.	that's great. congratulations.
that's great. congratulations.	i appreciate that.
i appreciate that.	you have no idea how happy i am for you.
you have no idea how happy i am for you.	for real?
you look really nice today. 	thank you. i just got this outfit the other day.
thank you. i just got this outfit the other day.	really, where did you get it?
really, where did you get it?	i got it from macy's.
i got it from macy's.	it's really nice.
it's really nice.	thanks again. you look nice today, too.
thanks again. you look nice today, too.	thank you. i just got these shoes today.
thank you. i just got these shoes today.	really? what kind of shoes are they?
really? what kind of shoes are they?	these are called all star chuck taylors.
these are called all star chuck taylors.	i really like those. how much did they cost?
i really like those. how much did they cost?	they were about forty dollars.
they were about forty dollars.	i think i'm going to go buy myself a pair.
i absolutely love what you're wearing today.	you do? i just bought this outfit a couple days ago.
you do? i just bought this outfit a couple days ago.	seriously, it looks really nice on you. where did you buy it from?
seriously, it looks really nice on you. where did you buy it from?	i bought it from the macy's at the santa anita mall.
i bought it from the macy's at the santa anita mall.	i really like that outfit.
i really like that outfit.	thanks. i think you look nice today, too.
thanks. i think you look nice today, too.	thank you. i just bought these new shoes earlier today.
thank you. i just bought these new shoes earlier today.	those are nice. what are they?
those are nice. what are they?	these are some chucks.
these are some chucks.	those are great. how much were they?
those are great. how much were they?	i got them for forty.
i got them for forty.	i think i might go and find me my own pair of chucks.
i think that you look very cute today.	is that right? this is a brand new outfit.
is that right? this is a brand new outfit.	what store did you get it from?
what store did you get it from?	i went to macy's and picked it out.
i went to macy's and picked it out.	i love your outfit right now.
i love your outfit right now.	well, i think you look nice today too.
well, i think you look nice today too.	thanks. i found these new shoes earlier at the store.
thanks. i found these new shoes earlier at the store.	i think that those are some really nice shoes. what kind are they?
i think that those are some really nice shoes. what kind are they?	these are chucks.
these are chucks.	your shoes look really nice. how much did you get them for?
your shoes look really nice. how much did you get them for?	they only cost me about forty dollars.
tell me, what do you enjoy doing in your spare time?	i enjoy drawing and painting.
i enjoy drawing and painting.	you know how to draw and paint?
you know how to draw and paint?	yes, i do.
yes, i do.	when did you learn how to do that?
when did you learn how to do that?	i learned back in high school.
i learned back in high school.	oh, so you took an art class?
oh, so you took an art class?	yeah, i loved that class.
yeah, i loved that class.	i see that you're pretty talented.
i see that you're pretty talented.	thank you very much.
thank you very much.	i wish i had a talent like that.
i wish i had a talent like that.	i'm sure you have a talent. it's just hidden.
what kinds of things do you like to do?	i've always liked to draw and paint.
i've always liked to draw and paint.	i didn't know you knew how to draw and paint.
i didn't know you knew how to draw and paint.	i do it every once in a while.
i do it every once in a while.	how long have you known how to do that?
how long have you known how to do that?	i first learned how to do it in high school.
i first learned how to do it in high school.	did you take some sort of art class or something?
did you take some sort of art class or something?	that was my favorite class.
that was my favorite class.	you have got to be talented.
you have got to be talented.	thanks.
thanks.	if only i was talented.
if only i was talented.	you have a talent. you just don't know what it is yet.
are there any hobbies you do?	when i have time, i sometimes draw and paint.
when i have time, i sometimes draw and paint.	oh, you actually do that?
oh, you actually do that?	every so often, i do.
every so often, i do.	did you always know how to draw and paint?
did you always know how to draw and paint?	i was taught in high school how to draw and paint.
i was taught in high school how to draw and paint.	you had an art class?
you had an art class?	exactly, it was my favorite class.
exactly, it was my favorite class.	well, it's good that you're so talented.
well, it's good that you're so talented.	i appreciate that.
i appreciate that.	talent is a great thing, i wish i had one.
what's your favorite movie?	my favorite movie is superbad.
my favorite movie is superbad.	oh, why is that?
oh, why is that?	it's the funniest movie that i've ever seen.
it's the funniest movie that i've ever seen.	that's true. it is a very funny movie.
that's true. it is a very funny movie.	you've seen it before? 
you've seen it before? 	yes, i saw that movie the first day it came out in theaters.
yes, i saw that movie the first day it came out in theaters.	didn't you laugh through the whole movie? i did.
didn't you laugh through the whole movie? i did.	me too. that movie brought tears to my eyes.
me too. that movie brought tears to my eyes.	mine too.
mine too.	i have it on dvd at my house if you want to come over and watch it.
i have it on dvd at my house if you want to come over and watch it.	sure, let's go.
which movie is your favorite to watch?	i have to say, my favorite movie is superbad.
i have to say, my favorite movie is superbad.	is that right? why?
is that right? why?	honestly, it is one of the funniest movies i've seen in a long time.
honestly, it is one of the funniest movies i've seen in a long time.	you're right. that movie is hilarious.
you're right. that movie is hilarious.	i didn't think you saw that movie.
i didn't think you saw that movie.	i went to see it the day it came out.
i went to see it the day it came out.	i was laughing through the whole movie.
i was laughing through the whole movie.	i couldn't help laughing, either. 
i couldn't help laughing, either. 	same here.
same here.	i bought the movie. would you like to come to my house and watch it?
i bought the movie. would you like to come to my house and watch it?	of course.
out of every movie that you've seen, which one is your favorite?	i'm going to have to say that superbad is the best movie ever.
i'm going to have to say that superbad is the best movie ever.	you think so, how come?
you think so, how come?	well, superbad is super funny.
well, superbad is super funny.	you're not lying, i found that movie absolutely hilarious.
you're not lying, i found that movie absolutely hilarious.	i didn't know that you saw superbad before.
i didn't know that you saw superbad before.	i made sure to be in line to see it the first day it came out.
i made sure to be in line to see it the first day it came out.	i couldn't keep from laughing throughout the whole movie.
i couldn't keep from laughing throughout the whole movie.	i was laughing hysterically the whole time; my stomach muscles hurt afterwards.
i was laughing hysterically the whole time; my stomach muscles hurt afterwards.	that's exactly how i felt.
that's exactly how i felt.	i got the movie when it came out on dvd, do you want to come over?
what type of music do you like to listen to?	i like listening to different kinds of music.
i like listening to different kinds of music.	like what, for instance?
like what, for instance?	i enjoy rock and r&b.
i enjoy rock and r&b.	why is that?
why is that?	i like the different instruments that they use.
i like the different instruments that they use.	that's a good reason to like something.
that's a good reason to like something.	yeah, i think so too.
what kind of music do you enjoy listening to?	i enjoy listening to all kinds of music.
i enjoy listening to all kinds of music.	what kind?
what kind?	i like to listen to rock and r&b.
i like to listen to rock and r&b.	why do you like that type of music?
why do you like that type of music?	i like the kinds of instruments that they use.
i like the kinds of instruments that they use.	i think that's an excellent reason to like something.
i think that's an excellent reason to like something.	thanks, i feel the same way.
what is your favorite kind of music?	i listen to various types of music.
i listen to various types of music.	what genres?
what genres?	i enjoy listening to both rock and r&b.
i enjoy listening to both rock and r&b.	what interests you in that type of music?
what interests you in that type of music?	i enjoy the different types of instruments that they use.
i enjoy the different types of instruments that they use.	that is a perfect reason to like a certain kind of music.
did you go to the basketball game on friday?	no, i couldn't make it.
no, i couldn't make it.	you missed a really good game.
you missed a really good game.	oh, really? who won?
oh, really? who won?	our school did. they played really well.
our school did. they played really well.	too bad i was busy. i really wanted to go.
too bad i was busy. i really wanted to go.	yeah, you should have. it was really exciting.
yeah, you should have. it was really exciting.	so what was the score?
so what was the score?	the score was 101-98.
the score was 101-98.	man, that was a really close game.
man, that was a really close game.	that's what made it so great.
that's what made it so great.	i'll make sure and make it to the next one.
were you able to attend friday night's basketball game?	i was unable to make it.
i was unable to make it.	you should have been there. it was intense.
you should have been there. it was intense.	is that right. who ended up winning?
is that right. who ended up winning?	our team was victorious.
our team was victorious.	i wish i was free that night. i'm kind of mad that i didn't go.
i wish i was free that night. i'm kind of mad that i didn't go.	it was a great game.
it was a great game.	what was the score at the end of the game?
what was the score at the end of the game?	our team won 101-98.
our team won 101-98.	sounds like it was a close game.
sounds like it was a close game.	that's the reason it was such a great game.
that's the reason it was such a great game.	the next game, i will definitely be there.
i was meaning to ask you if you saw the basketball game on friday.	i wanted to go, but i couldn't.
i wanted to go, but i couldn't.	it was a great game.
it was a great game.	it's too bad that i couldn't make it. who won?
it's too bad that i couldn't make it. who won?	our team played hard and won.
our team played hard and won.	i really wish i went to the game.
i really wish i went to the game.	it was the best game ever.
it was the best game ever.	so tell me the final score.
so tell me the final score.	the other team lost by three points, 101-98. 
the other team lost by three points, 101-98. 	it must've been a close game.
it must've been a close game.	it really was. you should've gone.
what are you doing this weekend?	i'm going to the movies with a friend. how about you?
i'm going to the movies with a friend. how about you?	i'm not sure yet.
i'm not sure yet.	well, did you want to go see a movie with me?
well, did you want to go see a movie with me?	what movie are you going to see?
what movie are you going to see?	i'm not sure yet. is there something you want to see?
i'm not sure yet. is there something you want to see?	there's nothing i can think of.
there's nothing i can think of.	so, did you want to go?
so, did you want to go?	no, thanks, maybe another time.
no, thanks, maybe another time.	okay, sounds good.
do you know what you're going to do this weekend?	i am going to see a movie with a friend of mine. what about you?
i am going to see a movie with a friend of mine. what about you?	i don't know.
i don't know.	would you like to see a movie with me and my friend?
would you like to see a movie with me and my friend?	do you know what movie you're going to watch?
do you know what movie you're going to watch?	i don't know, but was there a certain movie you wanted to see?
i don't know, but was there a certain movie you wanted to see?	none that i can think of.
none that i can think of.	well, would you like to go?
well, would you like to go?	thank you for inviting me, but i think i'll pass.
thank you for inviting me, but i think i'll pass.	all right. another time then.
you have any ideas as to what you want to do this weekend?	i'm going to the movie theater with my friend. what are you going to do?
i'm going to the movie theater with my friend. what are you going to do?	i'm not quite sure yet.
i'm not quite sure yet.	how about you see a movie with me and my friend?
how about you see a movie with me and my friend?	what movie are you and your friend planning on watching?
what movie are you and your friend planning on watching?	not sure. is there a movie out that catches your eye?
not sure. is there a movie out that catches your eye?	no good movies come to mind.
no good movies come to mind.	have you decided whether or not you would like to go?
have you decided whether or not you would like to go?	no, thanks. maybe another time.
did you go to school today?	yeah, i went to school today. were you there?
yeah, i went to school today. were you there?	no, i didn't go, i've been sick.
no, i didn't go, i've been sick.	that sucks. did you want the assignments from english class?
that sucks. did you want the assignments from english class?	that would be nice, thank you.
that would be nice, thank you.	no problem, you're welcome.
no problem, you're welcome.	i will be glad to do the same for you when you're sick.
i will be glad to do the same for you when you're sick.	well, thank you. i hope to see you at school tomorrow.
have you attended school today?	i attended school today. did you?
i attended school today. did you?	i wasn't able to attend school because i was feeling ill.
i wasn't able to attend school because i was feeling ill.	i'm sorry to hear that. would you like the assignments from english class?
i'm sorry to hear that. would you like the assignments from english class?	i would really appreciate that, thanks.
i would really appreciate that, thanks.	it's no trouble at all.
it's no trouble at all.	if you get sick, i'll return the favor.
if you get sick, i'll return the favor.	thanks. see you at school tomorrow if you feel better.
have you gone to school today?	i went to school today. did you go to school?
i went to school today. did you go to school?	i couldn't go to school today, i was sick.
i couldn't go to school today, i was sick.	that's horrible. i'd be happy to give you the assignments from english class.
that's horrible. i'd be happy to give you the assignments from english class.	thank you very much, that's kind of you.
thank you very much, that's kind of you.	don't mention it.
don't mention it.	when you miss a day of school, i'll be happy to give you the english assignments.
did you hear the news?	what happened?
what happened?	our cousin went into labor and had her baby last week.
our cousin went into labor and had her baby last week.	she did? why didn't anyone tell me?
she did? why didn't anyone tell me?	i would've thought that somebody would have told you.
i would've thought that somebody would have told you.	no, i had no idea.
no, i had no idea.	well, she did, her baby was 8 pounds 6 ounces.
well, she did, her baby was 8 pounds 6 ounces.	oh my god, that's great!
oh my god, that's great!	are you going to go and visit her and the baby?
are you going to go and visit her and the baby?	i think that i might.
i think that i might.	good! i just thought i'd let you know.
good! i just thought i'd let you know.	thanks for telling me.
have you heard what happened?	heard what?
heard what?	debrah already had her baby.
debrah already had her baby.	i didn't know that.
i didn't know that.	i thought you knew.
i thought you knew.	i honestly didn't know.
i honestly didn't know.	the baby was 8 pounds 6 ounces.
the baby was 8 pounds 6 ounces.	that's good to hear.
that's good to hear.	will you go and visit them?
will you go and visit them?	of course i will.
of course i will.	i just wanted to give you the good news.
i just wanted to give you the good news.	thanks for letting me know.
have you heard the news?	i haven't heard anything.
i haven't heard anything.	debrah had her baby last week.
debrah had her baby last week.	nobody told me.
nobody told me.	i thought you heard.
i thought you heard.	i really wasn't told anything.
i really wasn't told anything.	she was a cute 8 pounds 6 ounces.
she was a cute 8 pounds 6 ounces.	wow, how exciting.
wow, how exciting.	i know, you should really go and see her and the baby.
i know, you should really go and see her and the baby.	of course i will.
of course i will.	i just wanted to let you know what happened.
did you go to school today?	of course. did you?
of course. did you?	i didn't want to, so i didn't.
i didn't want to, so i didn't.	that's sad, but have you gone to the movies recently?
that's sad, but have you gone to the movies recently?	that's a switch.
that's a switch.	i'm serious, have you?
i'm serious, have you?	no, i haven't. why?
no, i haven't. why?	i really want to go to the movies this weekend.
i really want to go to the movies this weekend.	so go then.
so go then.	i really don't want to go by myself.
i really don't want to go by myself.	well anyway, do you plan on going to school tomorrow?
well anyway, do you plan on going to school tomorrow?	no, i think i'm going to go to the movies.
did you make it to school today?	i always do. did you go to school today?
i always do. did you go to school today?	no, i didn't.
no, i didn't.	you should have, but have you seen any movies lately?
you should have, but have you seen any movies lately?	that was an odd change of subject.
that was an odd change of subject.	maybe it was, but answer the question.
maybe it was, but answer the question.	no, not recently.
no, not recently.	i want to go to see a movie this weekend.
i want to go to see a movie this weekend.	what's stopping you then?
what's stopping you then?	i don't want to go alone.
i don't want to go alone.	so, will you be at school tomorrow?
so, will you be at school tomorrow?	no, i want to go to the movies instead.
did you even bother to go to school today?	yeah, i went. did you go?
yeah, i went. did you go?	no, i didn't feel like it.
no, i didn't feel like it.	that's nice, have you been to the movies lately?
that's nice, have you been to the movies lately?	no, but that was a random change of subject.
no, but that was a random change of subject.	it may have been random, but have you?
it may have been random, but have you?	i haven't lately.
i haven't lately.	i would love to catch a movie this weekend.
i would love to catch a movie this weekend.	so then, why don't you just go?
so then, why don't you just go?	i don't want to see a movie by myself.
i don't want to see a movie by myself.	okay, so are you going to school tomorrow?
thanks for coming to see me today.	it's no problem. i was really missing you anyway.
it's no problem. i was really missing you anyway.	i missed you too.
i missed you too.	why haven't you tried to come see me then?
why haven't you tried to come see me then?	i've been really busy.
i've been really busy.	doing what?
doing what?	working.
working.	i would've come to see you sooner, but i've been busy too.
i would've come to see you sooner, but i've been busy too.	what have you been doing?
what have you been doing?	i've been working too.
i've been working too.	well regardless, i'm very happy that you came to see me.
well regardless, i'm very happy that you came to see me.	i am too.
i'm really glad that you came to see me.	i had to. i was missing you a lot.
i had to. i was missing you a lot.	i was missing you too.
i was missing you too.	so, why haven't you visited me?
so, why haven't you visited me?	i've actually been busy lately.
i've actually been busy lately.	what have you been doing?
what have you been doing?	i've just been working really hard.
i've just been working really hard.	i've also been busy.
i've also been busy.	tell me what you've been doing.
tell me what you've been doing.	basically, i've been working too.
basically, i've been working too.	well whatever, i'm glad you came.
well whatever, i'm glad you came.	so am i.
i'm really happy that you came to visit me.	i really missed you a lot.
i really missed you a lot.	i've been missing you like crazy.
i've been missing you like crazy.	i don't understand why you haven't come to visit me.
i don't understand why you haven't come to visit me.	lately, i've been quite busy.
lately, i've been quite busy.	tell me what you've been up to.
tell me what you've been up to.	i've really been working a lot lately.
i've really been working a lot lately.	i've been pretty busy myself.
i've been pretty busy myself.	so what have you been up to?
so what have you been up to?	i've just been working a lot.
i've just been working a lot.	whatever the reason may be, i'm glad you visited me.
hey, did you hear about jessica's party this weekend?	yeah, but i'm still waiting for my invitation.
yeah, but i'm still waiting for my invitation.	oh really? she gave me mine earlier today.
oh really? she gave me mine earlier today.	well, she'll probably just give me my invitation later on today.
well, she'll probably just give me my invitation later on today.	yeah, so are you planning on going?
yeah, so are you planning on going?	i think so. it sounds like it's going to be a lot of fun.
i think so. it sounds like it's going to be a lot of fun.	it really does, i can't wait.
it really does, i can't wait.	what time does the party start?
what time does the party start?	it starts at 8 o'clock.
it starts at 8 o'clock.	oh, well, how many people has she given invites to so far?
oh, well, how many people has she given invites to so far?	i'm not sure, but i don't think she's given out that many.
i'm not sure, but i don't think she's given out that many.	well, hopefully she'll give me my invite later on today.
have you heard about jessica's party on saturday?	i've heard about it, but i'm still waiting for my invitation.
i've heard about it, but i'm still waiting for my invitation.	really? i got mine from her this morning.
really? i got mine from her this morning.	i'm guessing that she's going to give me my invite today or tomorrow.
i'm guessing that she's going to give me my invite today or tomorrow.	you're probably right, do you intend on going to the party?
you're probably right, do you intend on going to the party?	i want to. i heard it's going to be really fun.
i want to. i heard it's going to be really fun.	i know, it does sound pretty awesome.
i know, it does sound pretty awesome.	well, when does the party start?
well, when does the party start?	it's supposed to start at about eight.
it's supposed to start at about eight.	how many invitations has she given out?
how many invitations has she given out?	i really don't know, but i don't think she gave out that many yet.
i really don't know, but i don't think she gave out that many yet.	i really want to go, so i hope that she gives me my invite soon.
has anyone told you about jessica's party coming up?	i was told about it already. i'm just waiting for my invitation.
i was told about it already. i'm just waiting for my invitation.	is that right? i already got my invitation from her earlier.
is that right? i already got my invitation from her earlier.	i believe that she will give me the invitation today.
i believe that she will give me the invitation today.	are you even going to go?
are you even going to go?	yeah, it sounds like it's going to be the best party of the year.
yeah, it sounds like it's going to be the best party of the year.	exactly, it seems like it's going to be loads of fun.
exactly, it seems like it's going to be loads of fun.	when exactly does the party start?
when exactly does the party start?	the invitation says it starts at 8:00 p.m.
the invitation says it starts at 8:00 p.m.	has she given out a lot of invitations yet?
has she given out a lot of invitations yet?	i have no idea, she hasn't given out many though.
hey, what's up?	nothing really.
nothing really.	i'm throwing a party on friday.
i'm throwing a party on friday.	i didn't realize that.
i didn't realize that.	you didn't?
you didn't?	nobody has told me anything about your party.
nobody has told me anything about your party.	did you want to go?
did you want to go?	when does it start?
when does it start?	at 8:00 p.m.
at 8:00 p.m.	i'll be there.
i'll be there.	i'd better see you there.
i'd better see you there.	of course.
what's going on with you?	fine. what's going on with you?
fine. what's going on with you?	i'm having a party this friday.
i'm having a party this friday.	i had no idea.
i had no idea.	is that right?
is that right?	i didn't hear anything about it.
i didn't hear anything about it.	can you go?
can you go?	what time?
what time?	it starts at 8 o'clock.
it starts at 8 o'clock.	i'll go.
i'll go.	i hope that i'll see you there.
i hope that i'll see you there.	no doubt.
what's going on?	not much.
not much.	this friday, i'm throwing a party.
this friday, i'm throwing a party.	oh really? i didn't know that.
oh really? i didn't know that.	are you serious?
are you serious?	i haven't heard anything about it.
i haven't heard anything about it.	can you make it?
can you make it?	what time does it start?
what time does it start?	the party starts at 8.
the party starts at 8.	yeah, i think i'll go.
yeah, i think i'll go.	am i going to see you there?
what's going on?	nothing really, you?
nothing really, you?	i'm throwing a party next saturday.
i'm throwing a party next saturday.	is that right?
is that right?	yeah, are you going to come?
yeah, are you going to come?	i'm sorry, i can't.
i'm sorry, i can't.	why not?
why not?	i don't really want to.
i don't really want to.	well, why don't you?
well, why don't you?	i hate going to parties.
i hate going to parties.	well, that's okay.
well, that's okay.	yeah, sorry.
what's up?	nothing, how about you?
nothing, how about you?	next saturday, i'm going to have a party.
next saturday, i'm going to have a party.	oh, really?
oh, really?	you are coming?
you are coming?	probably not.
probably not.	why is that?
why is that?	i don't feel like going.
i don't feel like going.	why not?
why not?	i really can't stand going to parties.
i really can't stand going to parties.	i understand, i guess.
i understand, i guess.	sorry about that.
what's happening?	not a lot, what about you?
not a lot, what about you?	i'm having a party next saturday.
i'm having a party next saturday.	that's nice.
that's nice.	are you going to be there?
are you going to be there?	i don't think so.
i don't think so.	is there a reason why?
is there a reason why?	i just really don't want to go.
i just really don't want to go.	how come?
how come?	i don't really like parties.
i don't really like parties.	i wish you would go, but that's okay.
what's up?	nothing much, what's going on?
nothing much, what's going on?	i'm having a party this friday.
i'm having a party this friday.	oh, really? that's nice.
oh, really? that's nice.	i wanted to see if you wanted to come.
i wanted to see if you wanted to come.	this friday? sorry, i already have plans.
this friday? sorry, i already have plans.	doing what?
doing what?	i'm going to dinner with my family.
i'm going to dinner with my family.	i really wanted you to come, but i understand.
i really wanted you to come, but i understand.	yeah, maybe next time.
yeah, maybe next time.	i'll hold you to that.
i'll hold you to that.	sounds like a plan.
hey, what's good with you?	not a lot. what about you?
not a lot. what about you?	i'm throwing a party on friday.
i'm throwing a party on friday.	that sounds like fun.
that sounds like fun.	do you think you can come?
do you think you can come?	i'm sorry. i'm already doing something this friday.
i'm sorry. i'm already doing something this friday.	what are you going to be doing?
what are you going to be doing?	my family and i are going to dinner.
my family and i are going to dinner.	i was hoping you would come.
i was hoping you would come.	i'll definitely try to make it the next time.
i'll definitely try to make it the next time.	i'd better see you there.
i'd better see you there.	all right. i'll see you next time.
what's going on?	nothing really. how about you?
nothing really. how about you?	a lot, like the party i'm having on friday.
a lot, like the party i'm having on friday.	well, that's cool.
well, that's cool.	will you be able to make it?
will you be able to make it?	i'm busy this friday. i'm sorry.
i'm busy this friday. i'm sorry.	what do you have to do?
what do you have to do?	i'm having dinner with my family
i'm having dinner with my family	maybe you can come next time.
maybe you can come next time.	i'll make sure and come to your next party.
i'll make sure and come to your next party.	i'll look for you at my next party.
it was nice talking to you.	why are you trying to rush me off the phone?
why are you trying to rush me off the phone?	i really have to go.
i really have to go.	why? i still wanted to talk to you.
why? i still wanted to talk to you.	i have things to do.
i have things to do.	like what?
like what?	don't be nosey.
don't be nosey.	i'm not. i just want to know.
i'm not. i just want to know.	well, it's really none of your business.
well, it's really none of your business.	that's harsh.
that's harsh.	i'm sorry, but i have to go.
i'm sorry, but i have to go.	fine.
i've enjoyed conversing with you.	is there a reason why you're trying to get off the phone so fast?
is there a reason why you're trying to get off the phone so fast?	i've got to go.
i've got to go.	i wasn't done talking to you.
i wasn't done talking to you.	i have to do some things, and besides, it's not polite to be nosey.
i have to do some things, and besides, it's not polite to be nosey.	i'm not being nosey. i'm just asking.
i'm not being nosey. i'm just asking.	i really don't think it's any of your business.
i really don't think it's any of your business.	that's not nice.
that's not nice.	i apologize, but i'm getting off the phone now.
i apologize, but i'm getting off the phone now.	okay.
i'll talk to you later.	what's the rush?
what's the rush?	i have to get off the phone now.
i have to get off the phone now.	i'm not ready to get off the phone with you.
i'm not ready to get off the phone with you.	there are other things i need to take care of.
there are other things i need to take care of.	what is it that you need to do? 
what is it that you need to do? 	please don't be nosey.
please don't be nosey.	i'm not being nosey, it's just a question.
i'm not being nosey, it's just a question.	you don't need to worry about that.
you don't need to worry about that.	that was mean to say.
that was mean to say.	i am very sorry, but i must go.
well, it was nice talking to you.	it was nice talking to you too.
it was nice talking to you too.	we should really hang out again.
we should really hang out again.	that would be fun.
that would be fun.	where do you want to go?
where do you want to go?	i think we should go out to eat.
i think we should go out to eat.	that sounds good.
that sounds good.	all right, so i'll see you then.
all right, so i'll see you then.	i'll call you later.
i'll call you later.	okay, i'll talk to you later then.
okay, i'll talk to you later then.	see you later.
see you later.	bye.
i enjoyed talking to you.	i enjoyed talking to you too.
i enjoyed talking to you too.	we should hang out some time.
we should hang out some time.	i think that would be nice.
i think that would be nice.	is there anything you would like to do next time?
is there anything you would like to do next time?	do you want to go out to eat?
do you want to go out to eat?	i'd like that.
i'd like that.	so i'll see you next time.
so i'll see you next time.	i'm going to call you soon. 
i'm going to call you soon. 	i'll talk to you later.
i'll talk to you later.	see you soon.
see you soon.	goodbye.
i had fun talking to you.	it was really nice talking to you also.
it was really nice talking to you also.	i think we should really do something sometime.
i think we should really do something sometime.	that should be loads of fun.
that should be loads of fun.	what do you want to do next time?
what do you want to do next time?	would you like to go to dinner or something?
would you like to go to dinner or something?	yeah, let's do that.
yeah, let's do that.	okay, until next time then.
okay, until next time then.	i'll call you so we can set that up.
i'll call you so we can set that up.	talk to you then.
talk to you then.	all right, see you.
where do you live?	i live in pasadena.
i live in pasadena.	where is pasadena?
where is pasadena?	it's in california.
it's in california.	is it in northern california?
is it in northern california?	no. it's in southern california.
no. it's in southern california.	is pasadena a big city?
is pasadena a big city?	it's pretty big.
it's pretty big.	how big is "pretty big"?
how big is "pretty big"?	it has about 140,000 people.
it has about 140,000 people.	how big is los angeles?
how big is los angeles?	it has about 3 million people.
do you have a car?	yes, i do.
yes, i do.	what kind of car do you have?
what kind of car do you have?	i have a honda.
i have a honda.	is it new?
is it new?	it was new in 2003.
it was new in 2003.	so, it's pretty old now.
so, it's pretty old now.	yes, it is. but it still looks good.
yes, it is. but it still looks good.	do you take good care of it?
do you take good care of it?	oh, yes. i wash it once a week.
oh, yes. i wash it once a week.	do you change the oil?
do you change the oil?	my mechanic changes the oil twice a year.
do you have a girlfriend?	no, i don't. do you?
no, i don't. do you?	i don't have a girlfriend, either.
i don't have a girlfriend, either.	why not?
why not?	i don't know. maybe i'm not rich enough.
i don't know. maybe i'm not rich enough.	girls like guys with money.
girls like guys with money.	they sure do.
they sure do.	they like guys with new cars.
they like guys with new cars.	i don't have money or a new car.
i don't have money or a new car.	me, neither.
me, neither.	but girls like guys who are funny.
but girls like guys who are funny.	maybe we should learn some good jokes.
where are you going?	i have to walk the dog.
i have to walk the dog.	what kind of dog do you have?
what kind of dog do you have?	i have a little poodle.
i have a little poodle.	poodles bark a lot.
poodles bark a lot.	they sure do.
they sure do.	they bark at everything.
they bark at everything.	they never shut up.
they never shut up.	why did you get a poodle?
why did you get a poodle?	it's my mom's dog.
it's my mom's dog.	so she likes poodles.
so she likes poodles.	she says they're good watchdogs.
can i borrow $5?	sure. why do you need it?
sure. why do you need it?	i want to buy lunch.
i want to buy lunch.	where's your money?
where's your money?	it's not in my wallet.
it's not in my wallet.	your wallet is empty?
your wallet is empty?	i don't have even one dollar in it.
i don't have even one dollar in it.	being broke is no fun.
being broke is no fun.	even if it's only for a short while.
even if it's only for a short while.	it's always good to have friends.
it's always good to have friends.	friends will lend you money when you're broke.
friends will lend you money when you're broke.	as long as you pay them back.
let's go to the beach.	that's a great idea.
that's a great idea.	we haven't been in a while.
we haven't been in a while.	we haven't been in a month.
we haven't been in a month.	the last time we went, you almost drowned.
the last time we went, you almost drowned.	no, i didn't.
no, i didn't.	then why did the lifeguard dive into the water?
then why did the lifeguard dive into the water?	i think he wanted to cool off.
i think he wanted to cool off.	he swam right up to you.
he swam right up to you.	and then he turned right around.
and then he turned right around.	maybe you're right.
maybe you're right.	maybe we should get going.
are you married?	no. i'm divorced.
no. i'm divorced.	when did you get divorced?
when did you get divorced?	i got divorced two years ago.
i got divorced two years ago.	why did you get divorced?
why did you get divorced?	my wife left me.
my wife left me.	why did she leave you?
why did she leave you?	she said she didn't love me anymore.
she said she didn't love me anymore.	wow! that's terrible.
wow! that's terrible.	yes, it was.
yes, it was.	why didn't she love you anymore?
why didn't she love you anymore?	she fell in love with my best friend.
i'm bored.	what's on tv?
what's on tv?	nothing.
nothing.	there must be something on tv!
there must be something on tv!	nothing that's interesting.
nothing that's interesting.	what about that new game show?
what about that new game show?	which one?
which one?	"deal or no deal"
"deal or no deal"	tell me you're joking.
tell me you're joking.	i love that show.
i love that show.	i watched it once. that was enough.
i watched it once. that was enough.	it's on right now. let's watch it together.
i like living here.	i agree. pasadena is a nice city.
i agree. pasadena is a nice city.	it's not too big.
it's not too big.	and it's not too small.
and it's not too small.	it has great weather all year long.
it has great weather all year long.	it has the rose parade.
it has the rose parade.	it has beautiful houses.
it has beautiful houses.	it has wonderful restaurants.
it has wonderful restaurants.	it has great schools.
it has great schools.	it's close to the mountains.
it's close to the mountains.	the people are friendly.
the people are friendly.	i'm not ever going to leave.
we need a new mattress.	what's the matter with this one?
what's the matter with this one?	it's not comfortable.
it's not comfortable.	it seems fine to me.
it seems fine to me.	i toss and turn all night.
i toss and turn all night.	you should stop drinking coffee.
you should stop drinking coffee.	look at these marks on my arms.
look at these marks on my arms.	what are they?
what are they?	they are bites.
they are bites.	did the cat bite you?
did the cat bite you?	no. the bedbugs in that mattress bit me.
no. the bedbugs in that mattress bit me.	okay. let's get a new mattress.
my laptop is so slow.	buy a new one.
buy a new one.	i would if i had the money.
i would if i had the money.	why is it so slow?
why is it so slow?	that's a good question.
that's a good question.	did you take it to a computer shop?
did you take it to a computer shop?	i would if i had the money.
i would if i had the money.	well, i guess you have to live with it.
well, i guess you have to live with it.	sometimes i want to throw it out the window.
sometimes i want to throw it out the window.	you don't want to do that.
you don't want to do that.	why not?
why not?	you might hit someone in the head.
what's for dinner?	i'm not sure.
i'm not sure.	how about a pizza?
how about a pizza?	you had pizza for lunch.
you had pizza for lunch.	but i love pizza.
but i love pizza.	everybody loves pizza.
everybody loves pizza.	so why can't i have pizza for dinner?
so why can't i have pizza for dinner?	because you need variety.
because you need variety.	what's "variety?
what's "variety?	different things?not the same thing all the time.
different things?not the same thing all the time.	you mean, like a pepperoni pizza instead of a cheese pizza?
you mean, like a pepperoni pizza instead of a cheese pizza?	no, i mean a salad instead of a pizza.
we need to save money.	why do we need to save money?
why do we need to save money?	because we need to buy a house.
because we need to buy a house.	but a house is so expensive.
but a house is so expensive.	that's why we need to save money.
that's why we need to save money.	how much do we need to save?
how much do we need to save?	we need to save enough for a down payment.
we need to save enough for a down payment.	how much is that?
how much is that?	that's about $30,000.
that's about $30,000.	thirty thousand dollars! that will take forever.
thirty thousand dollars! that will take forever.	not if we save every penny.
not if we save every penny.	okay. here's seven pennies.
the ocean is so big.	you can't see the end of it.
you can't see the end of it.	it goes on and on forever.
it goes on and on forever.	and it's deep, too.
and it's deep, too.	i think it's five miles deep.
i think it's five miles deep.	are there fish at the bottom?
are there fish at the bottom?	there are fish at the top and the bottom.
there are fish at the top and the bottom.	are there more fish or more people?
are there more fish or more people?	i think there are more fish.
i think there are more fish.	i hope so. i love to eat fish.
i'm upset with my mom.	why is that?
why is that?	i warned her about her new boyfriend. she didn't listen to me.
i warned her about her new boyfriend. she didn't listen to me.	what happened?
what happened?	i gave her $1,000 for her birthday. i told her to spend it on herself.
i gave her $1,000 for her birthday. i told her to spend it on herself.	that was very nice of you.
that was very nice of you.	i found out that she gave it to her new boyfriend.
i found out that she gave it to her new boyfriend.	why did she do that?
why did she do that?	he said he would buy her a nice ring.
he said he would buy her a nice ring.	what's wrong with that?
what's wrong with that?	he went to las vegas. he lost it all gambling.
he went to las vegas. he lost it all gambling.	i hope your mom broke up with him.
do animals talk to each other?	of course they talk to each other.
of course they talk to each other.	what do they talk about?
what do they talk about?	they talk about other animals.
they talk about other animals.	what else do they talk about?
what else do they talk about?	they talk about food and the weather.
they talk about food and the weather.	do they talk about us?
do they talk about us?	of course they talk about us.
of course they talk about us.	what do they say about us?
what do they say about us?	they say that we are funny-looking.
they say that we are funny-looking.	ha! we're not funny-looking; animals are funny-looking.
ha! we're not funny-looking; animals are funny-looking.	we're funny-looking because we wear clothes.
i have to clean the house.	yes, it's very dirty.
yes, it's very dirty.	you can help me.
you can help me.	why me?
why me?	because you helped make it dirty.
because you helped make it dirty.	what do you want me to do?
what do you want me to do?	i want you to clean the bathroom.
i want you to clean the bathroom.	oh, that's easy.
oh, that's easy.	clean the sink, the tub, the counter, and the toilet.
clean the sink, the tub, the counter, and the toilet.	that's a lot of work.
that's a lot of work.	tell me when you finish.
tell me when you finish.	i don't think so. you'll just give me more work.
you're watching too much tv.	what do you mean?
what do you mean?	i mean you're wasting your life.
i mean you're wasting your life.	i'm having fun.
i'm having fun.	you're sitting there with your mouth open.
you're sitting there with your mouth open.	who cares?
who cares?	i care. do something.
i care. do something.	okay. i did something.
okay. i did something.	what did you do?
what did you do?	i turned up the volume.
i turned up the volume.	that's not what i meant by "do something."
that's not what i meant by "do something."	will you do something? leave me alone.
did you write a letter to grandma?	yes, i did.
yes, i did.	did you tell her about school?
did you tell her about school?	i told her that school is fun.
i told her that school is fun.	did you put the letter in an envelope?
did you put the letter in an envelope?	yes, and i sealed the envelope.
yes, and i sealed the envelope.	did you put a stamp on the envelope?
did you put a stamp on the envelope?	i couldn't find any stamps.
i couldn't find any stamps.	they're in the kitchen drawer.
they're in the kitchen drawer.	okay. i just put a stamp on the envelope.
okay. i just put a stamp on the envelope.	give me the envelope, and i'll mail it for you.
give me the envelope, and i'll mail it for you.	when is grandma going to learn about e-mail?
why are you yawning?	i'm sleepy.
i'm sleepy.	why don't you go to bed?
why don't you go to bed?	i want to watch this tv show.
i want to watch this tv show.	maybe you should record it.
maybe you should record it.	the tape recorder is broken.
the tape recorder is broken.	then you should watch the rerun.
then you should watch the rerun.	why? i'm watching the original.
why? i'm watching the original.	but you'll be asleep in about one minute.
but you'll be asleep in about one minute.	i'm just yawning because the commercials are on.
i'm just yawning because the commercials are on.	okay. i'll tell you how the show ends.
okay. i'll tell you how the show ends.	zzz.
it's sunday.	so?
so?	you know what that means.
you know what that means.	i forgot.
i forgot.	sunday means we go to church.
sunday means we go to church.	oh, yeah.
oh, yeah.	put on a coat and tie.
put on a coat and tie.	why?
why?	to show respect to god and others.
to show respect to god and others.	i'm glad sunday is only once a week.
i'm glad sunday is only once a week.	i hope god didn't hear that.
i hope god didn't hear that.	he'll forgive me.
did you feed the cat?	i'll do that in a minute.
i'll do that in a minute.	the cat is meowing. he's hungry.
the cat is meowing. he's hungry.	okay. i'll feed him right now.
okay. i'll feed him right now.	you shouldn't make him wait.
you shouldn't make him wait.	i was doing my homework.
i was doing my homework.	the cat doesn't care about your homework.
the cat doesn't care about your homework.	the cat doesn't care about anything.
the cat doesn't care about anything.	that's the way cats are.
that's the way cats are.	all they think about is themselves.
all they think about is themselves.	maybe we should get rid of him.
maybe we should get rid of him.	of course not! he's family.
i hate shaving.	me too.
me too.	i just cut myself again.
i just cut myself again.	did you use a new blade?
did you use a new blade?	it doesn't matter. old blades cut, new blades cut.
it doesn't matter. old blades cut, new blades cut.	maybe you should use an electric shaver.
maybe you should use an electric shaver.	they make a lot of noise, but they don't give a close shave.
they make a lot of noise, but they don't give a close shave.	maybe you should stop shaving.
maybe you should stop shaving.	and grow a beard?
and grow a beard?	sure. why not?
sure. why not?	because food and other stuff sticks in my beard.
because food and other stuff sticks in my beard.	hmm. here's an idea. put cream on your face and have the cat lick it off.
excuse me.	yes?
yes?	are you reading this paper?
are you reading this paper?	oh, no. help yourself.
oh, no. help yourself.	i asked because the paper is sitting next to you.
i asked because the paper is sitting next to you.	thank you. that's polite of you to ask.
thank you. that's polite of you to ask.	some people would just pick it up.
some people would just pick it up.	yes, i know. some people are rude.
yes, i know. some people are rude.	i always try to be polite.
i always try to be polite.	so do i.
so do i.	the world needs more polite people like us.
the world needs more polite people like us.	i agree 100 percent.
mom, i want a puppy.	let me think about it.
let me think about it.	why do you have to think about it?
why do you have to think about it?	because a puppy costs money.
because a puppy costs money.	no, it doesn't. puppies are free.
no, it doesn't. puppies are free.	yes, but a puppy needs shots.
yes, but a puppy needs shots.	shots for what?
shots for what?	so it won't get sick. just like you get shots.
so it won't get sick. just like you get shots.	i hate shots.
i hate shots.	and a puppy eats food. food costs money.
and a puppy eats food. food costs money.	no problem. i'll give him food off my plate.
no problem. i'll give him food off my plate.	oh, no you don't. puppies don't eat vegetables.
look at all these kittens!	how many are there?
how many are there?	eight.
eight.	they're all so cute.
they're all so cute.	yes, but i can't keep them.
yes, but i can't keep them.	what are you going to do with them?
what are you going to do with them?	i'm going to give them away. do you want one?
i'm going to give them away. do you want one?	yes, i would love one.
yes, i would love one.	which one do you want?
which one do you want?	that one. the one that's all black.
that one. the one that's all black.	yes, i like that one, too.
yes, i like that one, too.	i'll call him blacky.
my parents go to church every sunday.	they trust in god.
they trust in god.	they hope they will go to heaven.
they hope they will go to heaven.	they probably will.
they probably will.	but no one knows for sure.
but no one knows for sure.	that's for sure.
that's for sure.	no one knows what happens after we die.
no one knows what happens after we die.	if we are good, we will be happy in heaven with god.
if we are good, we will be happy in heaven with god.	that's what many people believe.
that's what many people believe.	if we are bad, we will be unhappy forever in hell.
if we are bad, we will be unhappy forever in hell.	i don't want to go to hell.
i don't want to go to hell.	let's go to church with your parents on sunday.
my husband died.	i'm sorry for you.
i'm sorry for you.	thank you.
thank you.	when did he die?
when did he die?	a couple of months ago.
a couple of months ago.	you still miss him.
you still miss him.	yes, but i talk to him almost every day.
yes, but i talk to him almost every day.	when you go to church?
when you go to church?	no, when i call him on his cell phone.
no, when i call him on his cell phone.	what do you mean?
what do you mean?	i buried him with his cell phone.
i buried him with his cell phone.	what will you do when the battery dies?
today is friday the thirteenth.	that's a bad day.
that's a bad day.	it's supposed to be unlucky.
it's supposed to be unlucky.	you're supposed to stay home all day.
you're supposed to stay home all day.	that's what i do.
that's what i do.	my friend stayed in a hotel on friday the thirteenth.
my friend stayed in a hotel on friday the thirteenth.	that was a mistake.
that was a mistake.	he stayed on the thirteenth floor.
he stayed on the thirteenth floor.	what happened?
what happened?	someone stole his laptop.
someone stole his laptop.	he was asking for it.
he was asking for it.	he learned his lesson. he's home today.
do you really love me?	of course.
of course.	prove it.
prove it.	how can i prove it?
how can i prove it?	take me to dinner.
take me to dinner.	that's it? that's all i have to do?
that's it? that's all i have to do?	take me to a nice restaurant, not to mcdonald's.
take me to a nice restaurant, not to mcdonald's.	but a nice restaurant costs money.
but a nice restaurant costs money.	yes, and you have to make a reservation.
yes, and you have to make a reservation.	that's such a hassle.
that's such a hassle.	i knew you didn't love me.
i knew you didn't love me.	okay, okay! i'll make a reservation right now.
my parents are divorced.	so are mine.
so are mine.	why did your parents get divorced?
why did your parents get divorced?	my father found a new girlfriend.
my father found a new girlfriend.	that's too bad.
that's too bad.	my mother was hurt and angry.
my mother was hurt and angry.	she had good reason. what did she do?
she had good reason. what did she do?	she told him to drop his girlfriend.
she told him to drop his girlfriend.	what did your father do?
what did your father do?	he moved out of our house.
he moved out of our house.	i guess he really liked his new girlfriend.
i guess he really liked his new girlfriend.	yes, but she left him a year later.
my grandma's apartment smells funny.	so does mine.
so does mine.	i think it's an old people's smell.
i think it's an old people's smell.	really?
really?	yes. i think when you get old, you begin to smell.
yes. i think when you get old, you begin to smell.	like fruit that is too ripe?
like fruit that is too ripe?	yes, just like fruit that is too ripe.
yes, just like fruit that is too ripe.	but the smell is different.
but the smell is different.	yes, old people don't smell like fruit.
yes, old people don't smell like fruit.	no, they smell like a thrift shop.
no, they smell like a thrift shop.	yes, a thrift shop has that same smell.
yes, a thrift shop has that same smell.	yes, an old smell.
the price of stamps goes up and up.	i think stamps used to cost a penny.
i think stamps used to cost a penny.	that was a long time ago.
that was a long time ago.	it was before i was born.
it was before i was born.	now a stamp is 42 cents.
now a stamp is 42 cents.	but in may it will be 44 cents.
but in may it will be 44 cents.	have you ever lost a letter in the mail?
have you ever lost a letter in the mail?	no, i haven't.
no, i haven't.	neither have i.
neither have i.	so, they do a good job for the money.
so, they do a good job for the money.	yes, they do.
yes, they do.	maybe we shouldn't complain.
a button came off my shirt.	what are you going to do?
what are you going to do?	first, i have to find the button.
first, i have to find the button.	where did you lose it?
where did you lose it?	i have no idea.
i have no idea.	a button is hard to find. did you look in your pant cuffs?
a button is hard to find. did you look in your pant cuffs?	that's a good idea.
that's a good idea.	i found a button in my pant cuffs one time.
i found a button in my pant cuffs one time.	let me look. no, it's not there.
let me look. no, it's not there.	many shirts come with an extra button.
many shirts come with an extra button.	you're right. this one does have an extra button.
you're right. this one does have an extra button.	now all you have to do is sew it on.
i have to go to the bathroom.	you drink too much coffee.
you drink too much coffee.	but i love coffee.
but i love coffee.	well, it's your life.
well, it's your life.	you eat too much chocolate.
you eat too much chocolate.	i don't think so.
i don't think so.	have you looked in the mirror?
have you looked in the mirror?	do you think i'm getting fat?
do you think i'm getting fat?	i didn't say that.
i didn't say that.	what did you say?
what did you say?	i said i have to go to the bathroom.
i said i have to go to the bathroom.	that's what i thought you said.
did you do the laundry?	yes, i did.
yes, i did.	what did you wash?
what did you wash?	i washed the sheets and towels.
i washed the sheets and towels.	what about the pillowcases?
what about the pillowcases?	yes, i took them off the pillows and washed them.
yes, i took them off the pillows and washed them.	did you dry everything in the dryer?
did you dry everything in the dryer?	yes, i dried everything in the dryer.
yes, i dried everything in the dryer.	then what did you do?
then what did you do?	i folded all the towels.
i folded all the towels.	did you put the sheets on the beds?
did you put the sheets on the beds?	yes, and i put the pillowcases on the pillows.
do you listen to the radio?	i listen day and night.
i listen day and night.	what do you listen to?
what do you listen to?	mostly talk radio.
mostly talk radio.	what's that?
what's that?	people talk about current events.
people talk about current events.	what do they say?
what do they say?	they say they want change.
they say they want change.	what kind of change?
what kind of change?	they want tax cuts.
they want tax cuts.	why do they want tax cuts?
why do they want tax cuts?	because tax cuts will save them money.
mom, i'm hungry.	look in the fridge.
look in the fridge.	i'm looking. there's nothing to eat.
i'm looking. there's nothing to eat.	are you sure?
are you sure?	it's almost empty.
it's almost empty.	i went to the market yesterday.
i went to the market yesterday.	i don't see anything.
i don't see anything.	i bought lots of oranges and apples.
i bought lots of oranges and apples.	i don't want fruit. i want something tasty.
i don't want fruit. i want something tasty.	eat the fruit. it's good for you.
eat the fruit. it's good for you.	next time you go to the market, let me go with you.
next time you go to the market, let me go with you.	no, thank you. all you want to eat are hot dogs and candy bars.
what is there to eat?	i don't know. look in the fridge.
i don't know. look in the fridge.	i think i'll make a sandwich.
i think i'll make a sandwich.	what kind?
what kind?	a ham sandwich.
a ham sandwich.	the bread is in the cabinet.
the bread is in the cabinet.	where's the mustard?
where's the mustard?	it's in the fridge, i think.
it's in the fridge, i think.	oh, yes, here it is. do you want a sandwich?
oh, yes, here it is. do you want a sandwich?	yes, that sounds nice.
yes, that sounds nice.	how about some potato chips?
how about some potato chips?	yes. and a pickle, if we have any.
it's time for your bath, young lady.	but, mom, i'm not dirty.
but, mom, i'm not dirty.	you need a bath every day.
you need a bath every day.	why?
why?	because you don't want to smell bad.
because you don't want to smell bad.	i don't smell bad.
i don't smell bad.	that's what you think.
that's what you think.	if i smelled bad, i could smell me.
if i smelled bad, i could smell me.	i can smell you.
i can smell you.	i can smell you, too.
i can smell you, too.	that's my perfume.
that's my perfume.	when can i wear perfume?
something's wrong with my computer.	exactly what?
exactly what?	all i get is a black screen.
all i get is a black screen.	what's the matter?
what's the matter?	i think i know, because this happened before.
i think i know, because this happened before.	what happened before?
what happened before?	my hard drive crashed.
my hard drive crashed.	oh, no. that's bad news.
oh, no. that's bad news.	it sure is, but i'm going to call hp first, just to make sure.
it sure is, but i'm going to call hp first, just to make sure.	will you lose all your files?
will you lose all your files?	no, i always back up my files.
no, i always back up my files.	you're smart.
i called hp about my computer.	what did they say?
what did they say?	they said i need a new hard drive.
they said i need a new hard drive.	that's too bad. how much is a new one?
that's too bad. how much is a new one?	it's not too much, only about $85.
it's not too much, only about $85.	plus installation?
plus installation?	no, my hard drive is easy to remove and replace.
no, my hard drive is easy to remove and replace.	really?
really?	yes, it's just a couple of screws.
yes, it's just a couple of screws.	that's nice.
that's nice.	it's a lot better than paying someone $60.
it's a lot better than paying someone $60.	if my hard drive crashes, i'll just call you.
what's your email address?	it's bluedog123.
it's bluedog123.	bluedog123. are you sure that's all?
bluedog123. are you sure that's all?	yes.
yes.	no. that's incomplete.
no. that's incomplete.	what do you mean?
what do you mean?	what's your mailing address?
what's your mailing address?	456 cherry drive, pasadena, ca 91170.
456 cherry drive, pasadena, ca 91170.	that's correct.
that's correct.	so what's the problem?
so what's the problem?	bluedog123 is just the street. you have to give me the city, state, and zip code.
bluedog123 is just the street. you have to give me the city, state, and zip code.	oh, i get it. my email address is bluedog123@yahoo.com.
i'm going to take a nap.	you should unplug the phone.
you should unplug the phone.	that's a good idea.
that's a good idea.	do you want me to wake you in an hour?
do you want me to wake you in an hour?	no, thanks. just let me sleep until i wake up.
no, thanks. just let me sleep until i wake up.	i'll start dinner at 6:00.
i'll start dinner at 6:00.	okay. i think i'll be awake by then.
okay. i think i'll be awake by then.	if not, your nose will wake you up.
if not, your nose will wake you up.	you mean i will smell the food cooking?
you mean i will smell the food cooking?	you might even dream about dinner.
you might even dream about dinner.	i don't think i'm going to dream about anything. i'm really tired.
i don't think i'm going to dream about anything. i'm really tired.	have a nice nap.
that was a nice funeral.	yes, dad, it was.
yes, dad, it was.	the son gave a nice speech about his father.
the son gave a nice speech about his father.	it was long, too.
it was long, too.	i think it was about 45 minutes long.
i think it was about 45 minutes long.	but it went by fast. it was interesting.
but it went by fast. it was interesting.	i liked it.
i liked it.	i'll give you a speech like that, too.
i'll give you a speech like that, too.	do you think anyone will come to my funeral?
do you think anyone will come to my funeral?	of course.
of course.	i think only the family will be there.
i think only the family will be there.	you have lots of friends. they will be there, too!
yikes! what was that noise?	i had to blow my nose.
i had to blow my nose.	did you have to blow right next to the phone?
did you have to blow right next to the phone?	did you hear that?
did you hear that?	of course i heard that. i thought a plane had crashed into your house.
of course i heard that. i thought a plane had crashed into your house.	it wasn't that loud.
it wasn't that loud.	i will blow my nose sometime for you, and you'll see.
i will blow my nose sometime for you, and you'll see.	okay. i'll take your word for it.
okay. i'll take your word for it.	i thought you had an elephant in your house.
i thought you had an elephant in your house.	you're funny.
you're funny.	what did you say? i think i've gone deaf.
what did you say? i think i've gone deaf.	i'm going into the bathroom to blow my nose. i'll be right back.
i have lots of friends.	really? how many do you have?
really? how many do you have?	i don't know, maybe one hundred.
i don't know, maybe one hundred.	that is a lot of friends. do you have a best friend?
that is a lot of friends. do you have a best friend?	of course. i have lots of best friends.
of course. i have lots of best friends.	how many best friends do you have?
how many best friends do you have?	i think about twenty-five.
i think about twenty-five.	hmm. i have only one best friend.
hmm. i have only one best friend.	i feel sorry for you.
i feel sorry for you.	i have only a few friends.
i have only a few friends.	you must be lonely. i will share my friends with you.
you must be lonely. i will share my friends with you.	that's very nice of you.
don't you ever cheat on me.	why would i do that?
why would i do that?	because men like to cheat.
because men like to cheat.	some men do, but not me.
some men do, but not me.	i'm watching you.
i'm watching you.	i'm an open book. watch me all you want.
i'm an open book. watch me all you want.	if i catch you, you'll be sorry.
if i catch you, you'll be sorry.	you won't catch me, because i love you. i'm not a cheater.
you won't catch me, because i love you. i'm not a cheater.	i will poke your eyes out. 
i will poke your eyes out. 	i don't want any other woman.
i don't want any other woman.	i will chop your toes off, one by one.
i will chop your toes off, one by one.	honey, please. you're the only woman for me, forever. i swear it.
i hate to go outside.	me too.
me too.	why do you hate to go outside?
why do you hate to go outside?	i meet too many jerks.
i meet too many jerks.	i agree.
i agree.	this city is full of jerks.
this city is full of jerks.	rude people are everywhere.
rude people are everywhere.	but what can you do?
but what can you do?	you can yell at them.
you can yell at them.	and they will yell back at you.
and they will yell back at you.	yelling doesn't do any good.
yelling doesn't do any good.	no. the best thing to do is just stay home.
will you look at this form?	are you having problems with it?
are you having problems with it?	i don't understand some things.
i don't understand some things.	let me help you.
let me help you.	what does "mi" mean?
what does "mi" mean?	"mi" stands for middle initial.
"mi" stands for middle initial.	what does "mm/dd/yy" mean?
what does "mm/dd/yy" mean?	that means month/day/year. use numbers.
that means month/day/year. use numbers.	i don't understand.
i don't understand.	for example, if your birth date is january 12, 1987, write 01/12/87.
for example, if your birth date is january 12, 1987, write 01/12/87.	oh. that's simple enough.
oh. that's simple enough.	always print clearly, and fill in the bubbles completely.
let's go to the animal shelter.	what do you want to do?
what do you want to do?	i want to get a puppy for my son.
i want to get a puppy for my son.	that will make him so happy.
that will make him so happy.	i'll get him one of those little dogs.
i'll get him one of those little dogs.	one that won't grow up too big.
one that won't grow up too big.	and eat too much.
and eat too much.	do you know which one he would like?
do you know which one he would like?	oh, yes, i took him there yesterday. he showed me one that he really liked.
oh, yes, i took him there yesterday. he showed me one that he really liked.	i bet you had to drag him away.
i bet you had to drag him away.	he wanted to take it home yesterday.
he wanted to take it home yesterday.	i wonder what he'll name it.
what's the weather like?	i don't know. i just woke up.
i don't know. i just woke up.	why don't you look outside?
why don't you look outside?	okay. it looks like rain.
okay. it looks like rain.	why do you say that?
why do you say that?	the sky is gray.
the sky is gray.	is it raining right now?
is it raining right now?	no.
no.	how do you know?
how do you know?	the street isn't wet.
the street isn't wet.	i have to go shopping today.
i have to go shopping today.	you'd better take an umbrella.
i can't believe how hot it is.	it's not even noon yet.
it's not even noon yet.	that means it will get hotter.
that means it will get hotter.	i am dying from the heat.
i am dying from the heat.	turn on the air conditioner.
turn on the air conditioner.	it doesn't work.
it doesn't work.	what happened?
what happened?	i don't know.
i don't know.	did you call the repairman?
did you call the repairman?	of course.
of course.	when is he coming?
when is he coming?	he's busy. he said next week.
i'll be glad when winter comes.	why is that?
why is that?	because i love the snow.
because i love the snow.	yes, the snow is fun.
yes, the snow is fun.	last year we made a big snowman.
last year we made a big snowman.	how big was it?
how big was it?	it was seven feet tall.
it was seven feet tall.	how long did it take?
how long did it take?	it took us all day.
it took us all day.	did you give him a nose?
did you give him a nose?	of course. we gave him a big carrot for a nose.
of course. we gave him a big carrot for a nose.	let me help you make one this year.
i'm going to the bank.	what do you need to do?
what do you need to do?	i need to withdraw some money.
i need to withdraw some money.	how are you going to do that?
how are you going to do that?	i'll just use the atm.
i'll just use the atm.	what's that?
what's that?	it's the automatic teller machine.
it's the automatic teller machine.	it gives you money?
it gives you money?	i just insert my debit card into the machine.
i just insert my debit card into the machine.	and it gives you money?
and it gives you money?	well, it gives me money, but it's my own money.
well, it gives me money, but it's my own money.	oh. what good is that? i thought it gave you free money.
did you put the blue bin out on the street?	oh, no. i forgot.
oh, no. i forgot.	well, you'd better take it out front.
well, you'd better take it out front.	what time does the recycle truck come by?
what time does the recycle truck come by?	it usually gets here at noon on tuesday, which is tomorrow.
it usually gets here at noon on tuesday, which is tomorrow.	i'll just take it out to the street tomorrow morning.
i'll just take it out to the street tomorrow morning.	oh, no, you don't.
oh, no, you don't.	what do you mean?
what do you mean?	every morning you get up late and rush off to work late.
every morning you get up late and rush off to work late.	do you think i'll forget to do it?
do you think i'll forget to do it?	you'll remember to do it, but you won't have time to do it.
you'll remember to do it, but you won't have time to do it.	okay, i'll take it out front right now.
are you ready?	ready for what?
ready for what?	ready for the big switch.
ready for the big switch.	what are you talking about?
what are you talking about?	the nation is switching to digital tv.
the nation is switching to digital tv.	oh. of course i'm ready.
oh. of course i'm ready.	did you buy the converter?
did you buy the converter?	no, i don't need a converter because i bought a digital tv.
no, i don't need a converter because i bought a digital tv.	how much was that?
how much was that?	it was only about $120 for a 13-inch screen.
it was only about $120 for a 13-inch screen.	does it pick up any digital channels?
does it pick up any digital channels?	oh, yes. i get six korean channels but nothing in english!
people are funny.	they sure are.
they sure are.	did you hear about the pilot?
did you hear about the pilot?	the one that stole a small plane?
the one that stole a small plane?	yes, he stole a plane in canada and flew into the u.s.
yes, he stole a plane in canada and flew into the u.s.	did they catch him?
did they catch him?	yes. after two u.s. fighter jets followed him for an hour, he landed on a highway.
yes. after two u.s. fighter jets followed him for an hour, he landed on a highway.	did he crash?
did he crash?	no, he just landed the plane and walked to a restaurant.
no, he just landed the plane and walked to a restaurant.	did the cops find out why he flew into the u.s.?
did the cops find out why he flew into the u.s.?	his life sucked. he was hoping a fighter jet would shoot him down.
his life sucked. he was hoping a fighter jet would shoot him down.	poor guy.
the police need our help finding a robber.	how do you know?
how do you know?	the tv news is reporting a bank robbery.
the tv news is reporting a bank robbery.	do they know what the robber looks like?
do they know what the robber looks like?	yes, he's 6 feet tall, 200 pounds, black hair, and about 30 years old.
yes, he's 6 feet tall, 200 pounds, black hair, and about 30 years old.	what race is he?
what race is he?	they didn't say.
they didn't say.	the tv news doesn't tell us the race anymore.
the tv news doesn't tell us the race anymore.	of course not. that would be racist.
of course not. that would be racist.	but how can we identify someone if we don't know their race?
but how can we identify someone if we don't know their race?	don't ask me.
don't ask me.	then they also shouldn't tell us if the robber is male or female, because that is sexist.
don't wipe your nose on your sleeve.	but i don't have a tissue.
but i don't have a tissue.	then go find a tissue in the bathroom.
then go find a tissue in the bathroom.	i didn't have time to get one from there.
i didn't have time to get one from there.	your sleeves are not tissues.
your sleeves are not tissues.	but mom, all my friends use their sleeves.
but mom, all my friends use their sleeves.	that doesn't make it right.
that doesn't make it right.	i saw dad wipe his nose on his sleeve yesterday.
i saw dad wipe his nose on his sleeve yesterday.	i will talk to your father about that.
i will talk to your father about that.	i bet dad did it all the time when he was my age.
i bet dad did it all the time when he was my age.	your daddy was a good little boy.
your daddy was a good little boy.	how do you know? were you his mommy, too?
i'm worried.	worried about what?
worried about what?	i'm getting married.
i'm getting married.	you should be happy, not worried.
you should be happy, not worried.	i am happy, but marriage is a lot of responsibility.
i am happy, but marriage is a lot of responsibility.	yes, you have to take care of your wife.
yes, you have to take care of your wife.	and i have to take care of our children.
and i have to take care of our children.	are you going to start a family?
are you going to start a family?	yes. we want to have a little boy and a little girl.
yes. we want to have a little boy and a little girl.	that sounds wonderful.
that sounds wonderful.	except we can't afford it!
except we can't afford it!	no wonder you're worried.
i don't get art.	or artists.
or artists.	they're in a different world.
they're in a different world.	i saw a painting of a jar that was full of pencils.
i saw a painting of a jar that was full of pencils.	the artist said the jar was both full and empty.
the artist said the jar was both full and empty.	but it was full of pencils! how could he say it was empty?
but it was full of pencils! how could he say it was empty?	artists see things differently.
artists see things differently.	did you ever see anything that picasso painted?
did you ever see anything that picasso painted?	of course! he's world famous.
of course! he's world famous.	did he ever take art lessons?
did he ever take art lessons?	i can't believe it. i drew paintings like that in third grade.
i can't believe it. i drew paintings like that in third grade.	where are they? maybe they are worth millions.
what's the point?	the point of what?
the point of what?	of living.
of living.	who knows? you live, and then you die.
who knows? you live, and then you die.	we must be here for some reason.
we must be here for some reason.	maybe we're here to have fun.
maybe we're here to have fun.	then why aren't i having fun?
then why aren't i having fun?	because you're thinking too much.
because you're thinking too much.	so i should stop thinking?
so i should stop thinking?	stop thinking about what the point is.
stop thinking about what the point is.	okay. i'll start thinking about having some fun.
okay. i'll start thinking about having some fun.	just be patient. fun doesn't come along every five minutes.
beer is a powerful drug.	so are cigarettes.
so are cigarettes.	which would you prefer?
which would you prefer?	what do you mean?
what do you mean?	when you die and go to heaven, they will offer you beer or cigarettes.
when you die and go to heaven, they will offer you beer or cigarettes.	i could pick only one or the other?
i could pick only one or the other?	yes. nothing's perfect, not even in heaven.
yes. nothing's perfect, not even in heaven.	boy, that's a tough one.
boy, that's a tough one.	what's so tough about it? of course, i would pick cigarettes.
what's so tough about it? of course, i would pick cigarettes.	but cigarettes taste much better when you have a cold beer.
but cigarettes taste much better when you have a cold beer.	well, you can't have everything.
well, you can't have everything.	i don't think i want to go to your heaven.
my pants have a hole in the front pocket.	you shouldn't carry pens in your pocket.
you shouldn't carry pens in your pocket.	yesterday a pen fell through my pants onto my shoe.
yesterday a pen fell through my pants onto my shoe.	lucky for you it wasn't a sharp knife.
lucky for you it wasn't a sharp knife.	who carries a sharp knife in their pocket?
who carries a sharp knife in their pocket?	criminals, of course.
criminals, of course.	anyway, i have to fix the hole.
anyway, i have to fix the hole.	you can sew it up or use an iron-on patch.
you can sew it up or use an iron-on patch.	tell me about this patch.
tell me about this patch.	the patch has glue. the hot iron melts the glue so the patch sticks on.
the patch has glue. the hot iron melts the glue so the patch sticks on.	that sounds a lot easier than sewing.
that sounds a lot easier than sewing.	it is. but after about ten washings, the glue washes off.
do you know any good jokes?	i can't remember jokes.
i can't remember jokes.	neither can i.
neither can i.	they go in one ear and out the other.
they go in one ear and out the other.	who makes up all these jokes?
who makes up all these jokes?	who knows? but there must be a hundred new ones every day.
who knows? but there must be a hundred new ones every day.	yes, just in english alone.
yes, just in english alone.	i wonder if every language has jokes.
i wonder if every language has jokes.	of course! people everywhere like good jokes.
of course! people everywhere like good jokes.	what do you think people joke about the most?
what do you think people joke about the most?	i think most jokes are about women.
i think most jokes are about women.	oh, really? i think most jokes are about men!
you're very lucky.	why do you say that?
why do you say that?	you speak two languages.
you speak two languages.	well, my english isn't perfect.
well, my english isn't perfect.	no one speaks perfect english.
no one speaks perfect english.	maybe i will be the first!
maybe i will be the first!	i've been thinking about learning spanish.
i've been thinking about learning spanish.	spanish is easy. i'll be happy to teach you.
spanish is easy. i'll be happy to teach you.	how long will it take me to learn?
how long will it take me to learn?	i think it will only take you a year or two.
i think it will only take you a year or two.	how soon can we begin?
how soon can we begin?	ahora! that means right now.
do you know what today is?	yes, it's april 22.
yes, it's april 22.	it's more than just a date.
it's more than just a date.	is it your birthday or anniversary?
is it your birthday or anniversary?	no, it's earth day.
no, it's earth day.	what's that?
what's that?	it's a yearly reminder to take care of our planet.
it's a yearly reminder to take care of our planet.	oh, you mean like reuse things and recycle stuff?
oh, you mean like reuse things and recycle stuff?	yes. we need to think green, save water, and stop using plastic bags.
yes. we need to think green, save water, and stop using plastic bags.	how about if i take shorter showers?
how about if i take shorter showers?	that's a good idea, because showers waste a lot of water.
that's a good idea, because showers waste a lot of water.	from now on i'll spend only 20 minutes in the shower.
poetry sucks.	i don't know anyone who likes it.
i don't know anyone who likes it.	some of it is okay, i guess.
some of it is okay, i guess.	yes, the poems that rhyme and are easy to remember.
yes, the poems that rhyme and are easy to remember.	like "one, two, buckle my shoe."
like "one, two, buckle my shoe."	but people still write poems.
but people still write poems.	no one makes any money at it.
no one makes any money at it.	shakespeare was a poet.
shakespeare was a poet.	did he get rich from his poetry?
did he get rich from his poetry?	probably not.
probably not.	poems are a little bit like songs.
poems are a little bit like songs.	yes, but songs have music. without music, songs would suck, too.
how smart are you?	i don't know. i think i'm average.
i don't know. i think i'm average.	did you ever take an iq test?
did you ever take an iq test?	no, i never did. all i know is that i got a's and b's in school.
no, i never did. all i know is that i got a's and b's in school.	i wish i was really smart.
i wish i was really smart.	don't be ridiculous.
don't be ridiculous.	what do you mean?
what do you mean?	if you're going to make a wish, wish that you were really rich or famous.
if you're going to make a wish, wish that you were really rich or famous.	don't you ever wonder what it's like to be super-smart?
don't you ever wonder what it's like to be super-smart?	it must be very lonely.
it must be very lonely.	why's that?
why's that?	because if you're super-smart, no one understands what you're saying.
i missed the tv news last night. what was on?	nothing that would pass as news.
nothing that would pass as news.	what's the weather going to be like this weekend?
what's the weather going to be like this weekend?	i don't know. whenever the weather comes on, i switch channels.
i don't know. whenever the weather comes on, i switch channels.	what was the lead story on the news?
what was the lead story on the news?	some actress was in court for driving without a license.
some actress was in court for driving without a license.	what was the second story?
what was the second story?	some actor married a woman young enough to be his daughter.
some actor married a woman young enough to be his daughter.	what was the third story?
what was the third story?	a bull chased a man in a supermarket.
a bull chased a man in a supermarket.	wasn't there anything about octo-mom?
wasn't there anything about octo-mom?	of course. she's going to hire a nanny for her eight infants.
what are you going to do about your death?	well, mostly i'll try to avoid it.
well, mostly i'll try to avoid it.	i mean, are you going to get buried or cremated?
i mean, are you going to get buried or cremated?	my wife and i will be cremated.
my wife and i will be cremated.	are you going to be buried next to each other?
are you going to be buried next to each other?	oh, no. our ashes will be shaken into the ocean.
oh, no. our ashes will be shaken into the ocean.	you're not going to be buried?
you're not going to be buried?	a coffin costs too much and takes up too much space.
a coffin costs too much and takes up too much space.	yes, but it will be in a cemetery where your children can visit you.
yes, but it will be in a cemetery where your children can visit you.	children seldom visit their parents in a cemetery.
children seldom visit their parents in a cemetery.	that's true. a cemetery is for dead people, not living people.
that's true. a cemetery is for dead people, not living people.	we figure our kids can visit us whenever they go to the beach.
did you wipe your feet? 	yes, of course i wiped my feet.
yes, of course i wiped my feet.	then why is there mud on the carpet?
then why is there mud on the carpet?	i don't know. it's not my mud.
i don't know. it's not my mud.	well, someone brought it into the house.
well, someone brought it into the house.	look at the bottom of my shoes?they're clean.
look at the bottom of my shoes?they're clean.	of course they're clean. you left all the mud on the carpet.
of course they're clean. you left all the mud on the carpet.	okay, i'll get the vacuum cleaner.
okay, i'll get the vacuum cleaner.	don't vacuum it now.
don't vacuum it now.	don't you want me to clean up the mud?
don't you want me to clean up the mud?	wait till it dries. it will be easier to vacuum.
wait till it dries. it will be easier to vacuum.	next time i will be more careful.
what are you getting for your mom?	what are you talking about?
what are you talking about?	sunday is mother's day.
sunday is mother's day.	this sunday?
this sunday?	of course. it's all over the news.
of course. it's all over the news.	i thought it was next sunday.
i thought it was next sunday.	well, you'd better get her something.
well, you'd better get her something.	i'll get her a nice card.
i'll get her a nice card.	is that it?
is that it?	yes. that's all i ever give her.
yes. that's all i ever give her.	she raised you, and all you ever give her is a card?
she raised you, and all you ever give her is a card?	it's okay. she knows that i love her.
i don't like our flag.	what's the matter with it?
what's the matter with it?	it's too much like other flags.
it's too much like other flags.	yes, a lot of flags have stripes.
yes, a lot of flags have stripes.	a flag should be pretty.
a flag should be pretty.	what should our flag look like?
what should our flag look like?	it should have a pretty woman on it.
it should have a pretty woman on it.	that's ridiculous!
that's ridiculous!	you don't like pretty women?
you don't like pretty women?	of course i do. but not on our flag!
of course i do. but not on our flag!	every nation should have a pretty woman on their flag.
every nation should have a pretty woman on their flag.	you can't go to war carrying a flag with a woman on it!
i had a busy morning.	what did you do?
what did you do?	i watered all the plants.
i watered all the plants.	you have a lot of plants.
you have a lot of plants.	then i did my laundry.
then i did my laundry.	that takes some time.
that takes some time.	i took the dog for a walk.
i took the dog for a walk.	i'll bet he enjoyed his walk.
i'll bet he enjoyed his walk.	i vacuumed the entire house.
i vacuumed the entire house.	that's a lot of work.
that's a lot of work.	and then i made lunch.
and then i made lunch.	i'll bet you were hungry!
i don't have long distance service with my home phone.	so how do you make long distance calls?
so how do you make long distance calls?	i use a calling card.
i use a calling card.	where do you get that?
where do you get that?	i buy it at the dollar store.
i buy it at the dollar store.	how much is it?
how much is it?	it's one dollar for 100 minutes.
it's one dollar for 100 minutes.	that's only a penny a minute!
that's only a penny a minute!	it's a great price. but you have to dial a lot of numbers.
it's a great price. but you have to dial a lot of numbers.	how many?
how many?	first you dial seven numbers, then ten numbers, then ten more numbers.
first you dial seven numbers, then ten numbers, then ten more numbers.	yikes. i think i'll keep my long distance service.
do you go to college?	yes, i do.
yes, i do.	what college do you go to?
what college do you go to?	i go to pasadena city college.
i go to pasadena city college.	do you like it?
do you like it?	oh, yes, i really like it.
oh, yes, i really like it.	why do you like it?
why do you like it?	because it has great teachers.
because it has great teachers.	what else?
what else?	i like all my classmates, too.
i like all my classmates, too.	anything else?
anything else?	yes. it's not expensive!
i lost my new pen.	where did you lose it?
where did you lose it?	i don't know.
i don't know.	when did you lose it?
when did you lose it?	i think i lost it today. i used it yesterday.
i think i lost it today. i used it yesterday.	did you check all your pockets?
did you check all your pockets?	i checked all my pockets.
i checked all my pockets.	did you look in your desk?
did you look in your desk?	yes. it isn't there, either.
yes. it isn't there, either.	it's probably around somewhere.
it's probably around somewhere.	oh, well, it only cost me a dollar.
oh, well, it only cost me a dollar.	only a dollar? don't even look for it.
gravity is very important.	what is gravity?
what is gravity?	it's the force that pulls everything down.
it's the force that pulls everything down.	i don't understand.
i don't understand.	if you pour water into a glass, the water goes down into the glass.
if you pour water into a glass, the water goes down into the glass.	of course it does.
of course it does.	without gravity, the water would go up.
without gravity, the water would go up.	you're joking.
you're joking.	without gravity, you would go up.
without gravity, you would go up.	what do you mean?
what do you mean?	you would float into the sky like a balloon.
you would float into the sky like a balloon.	that would be fun!
i can't read my book.	turn on the light.
turn on the light.	the light is on.
the light is on.	open the book.
open the book.	the book is open.
the book is open.	see an eye doctor.
see an eye doctor.	that's what i need to do.
that's what i need to do.	he'll give you a prescription for glasses.
he'll give you a prescription for glasses.	i'll make an appointment tomorrow.
i'll make an appointment tomorrow.	i'll get the yellow pages for an eye doctor.
i'll get the yellow pages for an eye doctor.	read the phone number to me.
read the phone number to me.	i'll read it very loud, in case your hearing is getting bad, too.
what do you need for school?	i need pencils.
i need pencils.	anything else?
anything else?	i need a notebook.
i need a notebook.	do you need a pen?
do you need a pen?	no. i already have a pen.
no. i already have a pen.	do you need a calculator?
do you need a calculator?	no. the teacher doesn't permit calculators.
no. the teacher doesn't permit calculators.	how about a dictionary?
how about a dictionary?	no, we have a big dictionary in the classroom.
no, we have a big dictionary in the classroom.	well, i guess that's it.
well, i guess that's it.	yes, that's all i need for now.
i like this magazine.	so do i.
so do i.	i read it once, and i subscribed.
i read it once, and i subscribed.	it gives you all the news.
it gives you all the news.	all the news in only 50 pages.
all the news in only 50 pages.	i like the political cartoons.
i like the political cartoons.	i like the beautiful photos of the houses for sale.
i like the beautiful photos of the houses for sale.	i always read the film reviews.
i always read the film reviews.	i never miss the food and drink section.
i never miss the food and drink section.	i gave a subscription to my parents.
i gave a subscription to my parents.	me too. they canceled their other news magazines.
me too. they canceled their other news magazines.	so did mine!
my pen is out of ink.	shake it a couple of times.
shake it a couple of times.	i shook it. there is no more ink.
i shook it. there is no more ink.	you can borrow mine.
you can borrow mine.	thank you. i'll buy a new one tomorrow.
thank you. i'll buy a new one tomorrow.	what were you doing?
what were you doing?	i was writing a letter.
i was writing a letter.	who were you writing to?
who were you writing to?	it's to my mom.
it's to my mom.	tell her i said hello.
tell her i said hello.	okay. i'll return your pen when i'm done.
okay. i'll return your pen when i'm done.	take your time.
have you done your homework?	not yet.
not yet.	then why are you watching tv?
then why are you watching tv?	this is my favorite show.
this is my favorite show.	go do your homework.
go do your homework.	but, mom!
but, mom!	you can watch tv after you do your homework.
you can watch tv after you do your homework.	but the show will be over.
but the show will be over.	there will be another show next week.
there will be another show next week.	please?
please?	you know the rules.
you know the rules.	i hate the rules! i can't wait till i grow up.
i can't wait until i graduate.	me too.
me too.	no more homework.
no more homework.	i hate homework.
i hate homework.	are you going to college?
are you going to college?	i can't afford it.
i can't afford it.	me neither.
me neither.	so what are you going to do?
so what are you going to do?	i'm joining the army.
i'm joining the army.	you're kidding. you might get killed.
you're kidding. you might get killed.	i don't think so. after i finish, i'll have enough money to go to college.
i don't think so. after i finish, i'll have enough money to go to college.	that's not a bad idea.
what is your major?	english.
english.	what are you going to do with an english major?
what are you going to do with an english major?	i'm going to be a teacher.
i'm going to be a teacher.	high school or middle school?
high school or middle school?	high school.
high school.	i teach high school english.
i teach high school english.	i didn't know that.
i didn't know that.	i started teaching five years ago.
i started teaching five years ago.	how do you like it?
how do you like it?	do you see all this gray hair? it was totally black five years ago.
do you see all this gray hair? it was totally black five years ago.	maybe i'll teach middle school.
parking at school is impossible.	i'll say.
i'll say.	i drove around for half an hour.
i drove around for half an hour.	did you find a spot?
did you find a spot?	i found a spot, but someone cut in and took it from me.
i found a spot, but someone cut in and took it from me.	did you yell at them?
did you yell at them?	yes, i did.
yes, i did.	and?
and?	and he yelled back at me.
and he yelled back at me.	how rude.
how rude.	but i got lucky a few minutes later.
but i got lucky a few minutes later.	you have to be lucky to find a parking space.
this is a huge library.	yes, it has lots of rooms and lots of space.
yes, it has lots of rooms and lots of space.	and lots of books.
and lots of books.	and lots of thieves.
and lots of thieves.	what do you mean?
what do you mean?	i mean, keep your belongings close to you.
i mean, keep your belongings close to you.	the only thing in my backpack is used books.
the only thing in my backpack is used books.	but thieves don't know that.
but thieves don't know that.	they might think that i've got an ipod or laptop in there.
they might think that i've got an ipod or laptop in there.	now you're thinking.
now you're thinking.	you'd think a library would be safe from thieves.
you'd think a library would be safe from thieves.	not even a church is safe from thieves.
how good is your math?	i can add two and two.
i can add two and two.	so you're not very good at math?
so you're not very good at math?	i'm terrible at math.
i'm terrible at math.	well, i need some help.
well, i need some help.	with what?
with what?	i'm taking a math course in school.
i'm taking a math course in school.	well, you should ask your teacher or your classmates for help.
well, you should ask your teacher or your classmates for help.	i can't do that.
i can't do that.	why not?
why not?	they might think i'm stupid.
they might think i'm stupid.	they're not going to think that! they'll be glad to help you.
do you believe in god?	of course.
of course.	do you pray to god?
do you pray to god?	occasionally.
occasionally.	when's that?
when's that?	when i need something.
when i need something.	like what?
like what?	well, if i have a big test at school.
well, if i have a big test at school.	does god answer your prayers?
does god answer your prayers?	yes, i've passed all my tests.
yes, i've passed all my tests.	do you ever pray for money?
do you ever pray for money?	not yet. i won't need to do that until i graduate from high school.
the cops finally found the husband.	what husband?
what husband?	the husband of the driver who ran over two college students at 3 a.m.
the husband of the driver who ran over two college students at 3 a.m.	oh, yeah. the girl died instantly, and the boy is still in the hospital.
oh, yeah. the girl died instantly, and the boy is still in the hospital.	the husband said he tried to help the boy.
the husband said he tried to help the boy.	yes, he pushed him off the hood of the car.
yes, he pushed him off the hood of the car.	no, he said he gently placed the boy on the street.
no, he said he gently placed the boy on the street.	so what? they still drove off.
so what? they still drove off.	the husband said a fire department was nearby.
the husband said a fire department was nearby.	so what? did he dial 911?
so what? did he dial 911?	he said he was thinking about it, but he didn't get around to it.
he said he was thinking about it, but he didn't get around to it.	he didn't get around to turning himself in, either.
i don't like riding the bus.	why not?
why not?	the seats and windows are dirty.
the seats and windows are dirty.	don't they clean the bus every night?
don't they clean the bus every night?	i think they do.
i think they do.	you should bring some wipes with you.
you should bring some wipes with you.	that's a good idea.
that's a good idea.	then you can wipe your seat and window.
then you can wipe your seat and window.	people will think i'm strange.
people will think i'm strange.	who cares? everyone is strange.
who cares? everyone is strange.	that's for sure.
that's for sure.	don't worry about what people think.
i don't like riding the bus.	why not?
why not?	number one, it's too slow.
number one, it's too slow.	you're right. a car is faster.
you're right. a car is faster.	number two, it's usually late.
number two, it's usually late.	you're right. the buses are never on time.
you're right. the buses are never on time.	number three, it doesn't run 24 hours.
number three, it doesn't run 24 hours.	you're right. buses don't run late at night.
you're right. buses don't run late at night.	number four, it's too crowded.
number four, it's too crowded.	you're right. you have to stand in the aisle.
you're right. you have to stand in the aisle.	number five, it's unsafe.
number five, it's unsafe.	you're right. bad guys might rob you.
we had a problem at school.	what was the problem?
what was the problem?	someone cut the tires.
someone cut the tires.	what tires?
what tires?	the tires on the cars.
the tires on the cars.	where were the cars?
where were the cars?	they were in the student parking lot.
they were in the student parking lot.	how many tires were cut?
how many tires were cut?	one or two tires were cut on each car.
one or two tires were cut on each car.	how many cars?
how many cars?	eleven cars.
eleven cars.	that's terrible. i hope they catch the person.
life isn't fair.	it sure isn't.
it sure isn't.	i got a ticket yesterday.
i got a ticket yesterday.	what for?
what for?	i was crossing the street.
i was crossing the street.	were you in a crosswalk?
were you in a crosswalk?	yes, but the red hand was blinking.
yes, but the red hand was blinking.	so? that's a ticket?
so? that's a ticket?	yes, it's a $140 ticket.
yes, it's a $140 ticket.	that's not right!
that's not right!	when i started to cross the street, the white walk sign was blinking.
when i started to cross the street, the white walk sign was blinking.	you need to walk faster.
you're driving too fast.	why do you say that?
why do you say that?	the speed limit is 65.
the speed limit is 65.	i know that.
i know that.	but you're doing 75.
but you're doing 75.	so is everyone else.
so is everyone else.	but a cop might stop you.
but a cop might stop you.	no, he won't. some cars are doing 85.
no, he won't. some cars are doing 85.	so the cop will stop those cars?
so the cop will stop those cars?	of course. he stops the fastest cars.
of course. he stops the fastest cars.	my friend got a ticket for doing 75.
my friend got a ticket for doing 75.	your friend was unlucky.
remember to put air in your tires.	how often do i have to do that?
how often do i have to do that?	once every two months.
once every two months.	that's a lot.
that's a lot.	what do you mean?
what do you mean?	that's six times a year!
that's six times a year!	yes, and it takes about five minutes each time.
yes, and it takes about five minutes each time.	i'll try.
i'll try.	check your tires or you'll get a flat.
check your tires or you'll get a flat.	oh. that's not good.
oh. that's not good.	no, it isn't. a flat costs you time and money.
no, it isn't. a flat costs you time and money.	and i don't have either.
you're driving too fast.	i'm in a hurry.
i'm in a hurry.	don't ever be in a hurry.
don't ever be in a hurry.	it's not my fault. you didn't wake me up.
it's not my fault. you didn't wake me up.	that's not my fault. you didn't tell me to wake you up.
that's not my fault. you didn't tell me to wake you up.	well, i meant to.
well, i meant to.	don't ever be in a hurry when you're driving.
don't ever be in a hurry when you're driving.	why not?
why not?	because you'll have an accident. most accidents are because people are in a hurry.
because you'll have an accident. most accidents are because people are in a hurry.	how do you know that?
how do you know that?	i read a lot.
i read a lot.	i thought drunks caused most accidents.
let's go for a ride.	where are we going?
where are we going?	into the mountains.
into the mountains.	that sounds nice.
that sounds nice.	i want to show you my new car.
i want to show you my new car.	you bought a new car?
you bought a new car?	yes. i bought a cadillac.
yes. i bought a cadillac.	a luxury car.
a luxury car.	luxury plus speed.
luxury plus speed.	what are we waiting for?
what are we waiting for?	let me get the keys.
let me get the keys.	let me get my camera.
i have to go to the bathroom.	why didn't you go before we left?
why didn't you go before we left?	i did, but i have to go again.
i did, but i have to go again.	well, hold on a little longer.
well, hold on a little longer.	i think i'm going to explode.
i think i'm going to explode.	just hold on.
just hold on.	oh! don't hit any more bumps!
oh! don't hit any more bumps!	we'll be at mcdonald's in just a few minutes.
we'll be at mcdonald's in just a few minutes.	i hope they are fast minutes.
i hope they are fast minutes.	think about something else. think about a hamburger.
think about something else. think about a hamburger.	i'm thinking, but i still have to go.
i'm thinking, but i still have to go.	it's the next exit. hold on!
where's the car?	what do you mean?
what do you mean?	the car isn't here.
the car isn't here.	where did you park it?
where did you park it?	i parked it right here.
i parked it right here.	are you sure?
are you sure?	yes. i remember this big tree.
yes. i remember this big tree.	maybe it's the wrong tree.
maybe it's the wrong tree.	no, this is the tree.
no, this is the tree.	did someone steal it?
did someone steal it?	i sure hope not.
i sure hope not.	maybe they towed it away.
look at this traffic.	i'd rather not.
i'd rather not.	it gets worse every year.
it gets worse every year.	why are you complaining? we're going almost 20 miles an hour.
why are you complaining? we're going almost 20 miles an hour.	the speed limit is 65!
the speed limit is 65!	well, that's between 2:00 and 4:00 a.m.
well, that's between 2:00 and 4:00 a.m.	where are all these people going?
where are all these people going?	they're all asking the same question.
they're all asking the same question.	when are they going to fix this problem?
when are they going to fix this problem?	they said they need more money.
they said they need more money.	they always need more money.
they always need more money.	it'll get worse before it gets better.
did you see that car?	yes, he went through the red light.
yes, he went through the red light.	can we call the police?
can we call the police?	no, the police don't care.
no, the police don't care.	why not?
why not?	they have to see it happen.
they have to see it happen.	they don't believe us?
they don't believe us?	no. they can only give a ticket if they see it happen.
no. they can only give a ticket if they see it happen.	so, what do we do?
so, what do we do?	we don't do anything.
we don't do anything.	maybe we should honk the horn next time.
maybe we should honk the horn next time.	the driver will just honk back at us.
my car is dirty.	why don't you wash it?
why don't you wash it?	that's what i'm going to do.
that's what i'm going to do.	are you going to wash it yourself?
are you going to wash it yourself?	of course. it's not a hard job.
of course. it's not a hard job.	i'll help you.
i'll help you.	okay, i'll get a bucket.
okay, i'll get a bucket.	i'll rinse the car first.
i'll rinse the car first.	then we can scrub it with a wet sponge and soap.
then we can scrub it with a wet sponge and soap.	after that, we can dry it with a towel.
after that, we can dry it with a towel.	then it will look like new
then it will look like new	and you save $10.
it sure is windy today.	paper is flying everywhere.
paper is flying everywhere.	this wind is dangerous for drivers.
this wind is dangerous for drivers.	especially for drivers of big trucks.
especially for drivers of big trucks.	the wind blows those trucks over.
the wind blows those trucks over.	it blows trees over, too.
it blows trees over, too.	a tree fell onto my dad's car.
a tree fell onto my dad's car.	was there much damage?
was there much damage?	my dad had to buy a new car.
my dad had to buy a new car.	wow! that's terrible.
wow! that's terrible.	never park your car under a tree.
never park your car under a tree.	the wind will get you, or the birds will get you.
when are we going to stop?	we'll stop at the next mcdonald's.
we'll stop at the next mcdonald's.	how far away is that?
how far away is that?	i think we'll be there in half an hour.
i think we'll be there in half an hour.	i hope so. i have to go to the bathroom.
i hope so. i have to go to the bathroom.	well, i can always pull over.
well, i can always pull over.	no, thank you, i'll just wait.
no, thank you, i'll just wait.	we can kill two birds with one stone.
we can kill two birds with one stone.	what do you mean?
what do you mean?	while you're using the bathroom, i'll order some food.
while you're using the bathroom, i'll order some food.	don't order for me. i'm not hungry.
don't order for me. i'm not hungry.	i'm very hungry. i'll order for you, and then i'll eat yours.
this is such a long light.	look how many cars are waiting in line.
look how many cars are waiting in line.	they need a left-turn arrow.
they need a left-turn arrow.	only two cars can make a left turn every three or four minutes.
only two cars can make a left turn every three or four minutes.	we'll be here forever.
we'll be here forever.	get out of this lane.
get out of this lane.	but we need to turn left.
but we need to turn left.	forget it. go straight.
forget it. go straight.	then what?
then what?	then we'll just make a u-turn.
then we'll just make a u-turn.	and then we can turn right at the light.
and then we can turn right at the light.	good idea. it will be so much quicker.
i need a cheap car.	how much money do you have?
how much money do you have?	$1,000.
$1,000.	well, that should get you something.
well, that should get you something.	but i need something that's reliable.
but i need something that's reliable.	you need a car with low mileage.
you need a car with low mileage.	a car that was owned by a little old lady.
a car that was owned by a little old lady.	where have you looked?
where have you looked?	i haven't looked anywhere yet.
i haven't looked anywhere yet.	why not?
why not?	because i'll never find one for such a low price.
because i'll never find one for such a low price.	you're right about that. keep saving your money.
good afternoon, officer.	your driver's license and registration, please.
your driver's license and registration, please.	here you go.
here you go.	do you know why i pulled you over?
do you know why i pulled you over?	i have no idea. all of a sudden i heard your siren.
i have no idea. all of a sudden i heard your siren.	you rolled through that stop sign back there.
you rolled through that stop sign back there.	but i stopped!
but i stopped!	no, you didn't. you slowed down, but you didn't come to a full stop.
no, you didn't. you slowed down, but you didn't come to a full stop.	well, nobody else does, so why should i?
well, nobody else does, so why should i?	that's not the attitude of a good driver.
that's not the attitude of a good driver.	but i am a good driver. i've never had a ticket in my life.
but i am a good driver. i've never had a ticket in my life.	well, you've got one now. here. have a nice day.
$140. i can't believe it.	what are you talking about?
what are you talking about?	i got a ticket downtown for $140.
i got a ticket downtown for $140.	were you speeding?
were you speeding?	no, i was crossing the street.
no, i was crossing the street.	were you jaywalking?
were you jaywalking?	no, i was in the crosswalk.
no, i was in the crosswalk.	so why did you get a ticket?
so why did you get a ticket?	the officer said the red hand was blinking.
the officer said the red hand was blinking.	was it blinking when you entered the crosswalk?
was it blinking when you entered the crosswalk?	no, the white walk sign was blinking.
no, the white walk sign was blinking.	you should fight that ticket. i'll be your witness.
they were in a crosswalk near school at 3 a.m.	who?
who?	two students from usc.
two students from usc.	what happened?
what happened?	a speeding car ran a red light, killing the girl.
a speeding car ran a red light, killing the girl.	what happened to the other student?
what happened to the other student?	he landed on the hood of the car.
he landed on the hood of the car.	did he get off the hood?
did he get off the hood?	no, the car stopped and the passenger pushed the injured student off the hood.
no, the car stopped and the passenger pushed the injured student off the hood.	i'll bet the car continued on its way.
i'll bet the car continued on its way.	of course it did. why stop after you've run over two people?
of course it did. why stop after you've run over two people?	i hope they find them and put them in jail for life.
what happened to your car?	i got a dent in the parking lot.
i got a dent in the parking lot.	how did you get it?
how did you get it?	i don't know. maybe it was from a shopping cart.
i don't know. maybe it was from a shopping cart.	those shopping carts are dangerous.
those shopping carts are dangerous.	especially the metal ones.
especially the metal ones.	i don't park at a store that uses metal shopping carts.
i don't park at a store that uses metal shopping carts.	that's a good idea, but there was a good sale at this store.
that's a good idea, but there was a good sale at this store.	did you save any money on the sale?
did you save any money on the sale?	yes, i did. i saved about $50.
yes, i did. i saved about $50.	that's great.
that's great.	yes, except this dent will cost about $150.
did you see "titanic"?	yes. it is a great movie.
yes. it is a great movie.	i saw it twelve times.
i saw it twelve times.	i saw it eight times.
i saw it eight times.	i have the dvd.
i have the dvd.	so do i.
so do i.	let's go to your home.
let's go to your home.	we can watch my dvd.
we can watch my dvd.	and then we can go to my home.
and then we can go to my home.	and watch your dvd.
and watch your dvd.	i always cry at the end.
i always cry at the end.	me too. it's so sad.
let's play cards.	i don't know any card games.
i don't know any card games.	i'll teach you one.
i'll teach you one.	okay. what will you teach me?
okay. what will you teach me?	it's called poker.
it's called poker.	is it easy to learn?
is it easy to learn?	yes, it will only take about 30 minutes.
yes, it will only take about 30 minutes.	okay. teach me how to play.
okay. teach me how to play.	we each get five cards.
we each get five cards.	oh, look. i have four tens.
oh, look. i have four tens.	that's great, but you're not supposed to tell me.
that's great, but you're not supposed to tell me.	oh. sorry. okay, i don't have four tens.
i'm a good card player.	why is that?
why is that?	because i watch the other players.
because i watch the other players.	what do you mean?
what do you mean?	people will tell you if they have a good hand.
people will tell you if they have a good hand.	how do they do that?
how do they do that?	for example, a friend of mine licks his lips.
for example, a friend of mine licks his lips.	when he licks his lips, you know he has a good hand?
when he licks his lips, you know he has a good hand?	i know he has a good hand, so i don't bet.
i know he has a good hand, so i don't bet.	he never wins your money?
he never wins your money?	nope, and it drives him crazy.
nope, and it drives him crazy.	he knows you can't read his mind. maybe he thinks you're cheating.
turn the radio down, please.	but i'm listening to it.
but i'm listening to it.	well, listen to it more quietly.
well, listen to it more quietly.	i can't wait till i grow up.
i can't wait till i grow up.	what will you do?
what will you do?	i will play the radio as loud as i want.
i will play the radio as loud as i want.	that's okay with me.
that's okay with me.	i will have a radio in every room of my house.
i will have a radio in every room of my house.	remind me to never visit you.
remind me to never visit you.	all the radios will be on extra loud.
all the radios will be on extra loud.	your neighbors will hate you.
your neighbors will hate you.	if they don't like it, they can move.
i hope i win the lotto.	your chances are very small.
your chances are very small.	but you can't win if you don't play.
but you can't win if you don't play.	ha! you can't win if you do play.
ha! you can't win if you do play.	someone has to win.
someone has to win.	that's what everyone says.
that's what everyone says.	it might as well be me.
it might as well be me.	that's what everyone says.
that's what everyone says.	you're trying to tell me something.
you're trying to tell me something.	that didn't take long.
that didn't take long.	you think i should quit playing.
you think i should quit playing.	save your money for school.
what's on tv?	nothing much.
nothing much.	what about the baseball game?
what about the baseball game?	it got rained out.
it got rained out.	rained out?
rained out?	yes, rained out.
yes, rained out.	how could that be?
how could that be?	well, you can't play baseball in a rainstorm.
well, you can't play baseball in a rainstorm.	i thought they were playing under a dome.
i thought they were playing under a dome.	the dome doesn't close.
the dome doesn't close.	why doesn't it close?
why doesn't it close?	who knows? they said they'll fix it before next season.
can i try your coffee?	sure. here you go.
sure. here you go.	hmm, that's not bad.
hmm, that's not bad.	there's nothing in it.
there's nothing in it.	what do you mean?
what do you mean?	i mean, it's just coffee.
i mean, it's just coffee.	i figured that.
i figured that.	it's not too bitter for you?
it's not too bitter for you?	it's a little bitter, but it's okay.
it's a little bitter, but it's okay.	there's no sugar or cream in it.
there's no sugar or cream in it.	no, it's a taste you have to get used to.
no, it's a taste you have to get used to.	sort of like beer.
let's take a walk.	what's the weather like?
what's the weather like?	let me step outside and see.
let me step outside and see.	it's a little chilly, right?
it's a little chilly, right?	yes, it is.
yes, it is.	i'll put on my cap.
i'll put on my cap.	wear a jacket, too.
wear a jacket, too.	i wonder if i should bring my gloves.
i wonder if i should bring my gloves.	maybe you should, just in case it gets colder.
maybe you should, just in case it gets colder.	i'll put a glove in each pocket.
i'll put a glove in each pocket.	we'll get warmer as we walk.
we'll get warmer as we walk.	yes, but it gets colder as the sun goes down.
look at the car chase on tv!	that driver is crazy.
that driver is crazy.	i can't believe he hasn't crashed.
i can't believe he hasn't crashed.	how fast is he going?
how fast is he going?	they say he's going 80 miles per hour.
they say he's going 80 miles per hour.	he's going to kill someone.
he's going to kill someone.	look! he just hit that car.
look! he just hit that car.	oh, my goodness. no one is safe on the streets.
oh, my goodness. no one is safe on the streets.	now he's slowing down.
now he's slowing down.	maybe he ran out of gas.
maybe he ran out of gas.	look! he just got out of the car and started running.
look! he just got out of the car and started running.	i hope the police catch him.
tv news is so stupid.	they shouldn't even call it news.
they shouldn't even call it news.	last night they told us about a cat in a sofa.
last night they told us about a cat in a sofa.	yesterday they told us about a dog in a pipe.
yesterday they told us about a dog in a pipe.	last week they told us about a bear in a back yard.
last week they told us about a bear in a back yard.	last month they told us about a mouse in a restaurant.
last month they told us about a mouse in a restaurant.	the weatherman tells us the temperature in every town.
the weatherman tells us the temperature in every town.	the sports guy shows us players fighting.
the sports guy shows us players fighting.	they always tell us "what's next."
they always tell us "what's next."	they always make "what's next" sound exciting, but it never is.
they always make "what's next" sound exciting, but it never is.	it's more like news for kids.
it's more like news for kids.	they should have kid reporters.
i love my computer.	computers are so cool.
computers are so cool.	i love to go online.
i love to go online.	the internet is amazing.
the internet is amazing.	you can travel all over the world.
you can travel all over the world.	i know. i went to china yesterday.
i know. i went to china yesterday.	what did you do?
what did you do?	i stood on the great wall and looked all around.
i stood on the great wall and looked all around.	what was it like?
what was it like?	it was like the real thing.
it was like the real thing.	it was like being there?
it was like being there?	yes, i felt like i was actually there.
the beatles are the best.	they are the best musical group ever.
they are the best musical group ever.	i love all their songs.
i love all their songs.	i don't know which one i like the best.
i don't know which one i like the best.	i like the ones i can sing along with.
i like the ones i can sing along with.	so do i, like "she loves you."
so do i, like "she loves you."	"she loves you, yeah, yeah, yeah!..."
"she loves you, yeah, yeah, yeah!..."	"?and you know you should be glad!"
"?and you know you should be glad!"	what a great song.
what a great song.	how about "let it be?"
how about "let it be?"	oh, yes! "let it be, let it be?"
oh, yes! "let it be, let it be?"	"?there will be an answer, let it be!"
let's go to a movie.	i'd rather not.
i'd rather not.	why not?
why not?	you know i don't like crowds.
you know i don't like crowds.	let's go to an early movie.
let's go to an early movie.	okay, that won't be very crowded.
okay, that won't be very crowded.	what would you like to see?
what would you like to see?	oh, i don't care. you're the one who wants to go out.
oh, i don't care. you're the one who wants to go out.	well, i want to see "the pursuit of happyness."
well, i want to see "the pursuit of happyness."	what have you heard about it?
what have you heard about it?	it's based on a true story about a divorced man and his young son.
it's based on a true story about a divorced man and his young son.	well, i hope it has a happy ending.
what's your favorite thing to do?	i like to watch people.
i like to watch people.	that's your favorite thing to do?
that's your favorite thing to do?	well, it's one of them.
well, it's one of them.	where do you go to watch people?
where do you go to watch people?	my girlfriend and i sit outside starbucks.
my girlfriend and i sit outside starbucks.	that sounds like a good spot.
that sounds like a good spot.	we watch people walk by with their dogs.
we watch people walk by with their dogs.	i guess you see lots of different dogs.
i guess you see lots of different dogs.	we don't even know what kind most of them are.
we don't even know what kind most of them are.	there are lots of different kinds, but they all have one thing in common.
there are lots of different kinds, but they all have one thing in common.	yes, they love to sniff each other when they meet.
they call him father dollar bill.	yes, he was on the tv news today.
yes, he was on the tv news today.	every easter sunday he gives away money.
every easter sunday he gives away money.	is it his money?
is it his money?	no. movie stars give him money to give to homeless people.
no. movie stars give him money to give to homeless people.	how much money does he give away?
how much money does he give away?	this year he gave away $15,000.
this year he gave away $15,000.	that's a lot of money.
that's a lot of money.	he gave $100 to people in wheelchairs.
he gave $100 to people in wheelchairs.	what about the other homeless people?
what about the other homeless people?	they got $1 each.
they got $1 each.	people stood in line just to get one dollar?!
old movies are the best.	even though they're in black and white.
even though they're in black and white.	a good story is more important than color.
a good story is more important than color.	actors didn't curse back then.
actors didn't curse back then.	and there was no violence.
and there was no violence.	people today don't like that.
people today don't like that.	no, today people like lots of action.
no, today people like lots of action.	i like a good story.
i like a good story.	i like to see actors who are like real people.
i like to see actors who are like real people.	like real people with real problems.
like real people with real problems.	they still make movies like that.
they still make movies like that.	yes, but they never make much money.
do you get pbs on tv?	yes, everybody gets the public broadcasting system.
yes, everybody gets the public broadcasting system.	it puts me to sleep.
it puts me to sleep.	tell me about it.
tell me about it.	a gardening show follows a knitting show.
a gardening show follows a knitting show.	a cooking show follows a sewing show.
a cooking show follows a sewing show.	a travel show follows another travel show.
a travel show follows another travel show.	i'll say! i've gone around the world a dozen times already!
i'll say! i've gone around the world a dozen times already!	now they're adding old tv shows to the old movies.
now they're adding old tv shows to the old movies.	i sure would like to see something interesting for a change.
i sure would like to see something interesting for a change.	if more people donate money, pbs could offer new shows.
if more people donate money, pbs could offer new shows.	who wants to donate? public tv should be free.
i love to watch "judge judy."	is that a tv show?
is that a tv show?	yes. it's on every afternoon.
yes. it's on every afternoon.	what's so good about it?
what's so good about it?	they have interesting lawsuits.
they have interesting lawsuits.	such as?
such as?	yesterday, a woman complained about a cell phone she bought on ebay.
yesterday, a woman complained about a cell phone she bought on ebay.	was something wrong with the phone?
was something wrong with the phone?	it works only in canada.
it works only in canada.	did the seller know that?
did the seller know that?	yes, and he didn't tell the buyer.
yes, and he didn't tell the buyer.	i hope judge judy made the seller take the phone back.
that woman is a very good singer.	yes, but she looks like a man.
yes, but she looks like a man.	what difference does it make?
what difference does it make?	female singers are supposed to be pretty.
female singers are supposed to be pretty.	singers are supposed to sound good.
singers are supposed to sound good.	they should look good, too.
they should look good, too.	there are lots of ugly men singers.
there are lots of ugly men singers.	men singers don't have to look good.
men singers don't have to look good.	then neither do women singers.
then neither do women singers.	well, i would never buy her cd.
well, i would never buy her cd.	but you would buy her cd if she was pretty?
but you would buy her cd if she was pretty?	yes. i would buy all of her cds.
all the tv stations are going to go digital.	yes, that will occur next month.
yes, that will occur next month.	most of them are already broadcasting in digital.
most of them are already broadcasting in digital.	the digital signal is very clear.
the digital signal is very clear.	oh, no, it isn't!
oh, no, it isn't!	what do you mean?
what do you mean?	i can't get a single channel.
i can't get a single channel.	do you have a digital tv?
do you have a digital tv?	of course. but i don't have cable.
of course. but i don't have cable.	you don't need to have cable, but you do need a good antenna.
you don't need to have cable, but you do need a good antenna.	but i have rabbit ears.
but i have rabbit ears.	rabbit ears aren't strong enough. buy a digital antenna.
i've got a date for you.	oh, really?
oh, really?	are you interested?
are you interested?	maybe. what is she like?
maybe. what is she like?	she's got a great personality.
she's got a great personality.	uh-oh. that means that she's fat and ugly.
uh-oh. that means that she's fat and ugly.	she's cute.
she's cute.	okay, so she's not ugly; she's just fat.
okay, so she's not ugly; she's just fat.	she weighs 98 pounds.
she weighs 98 pounds.	okay, she's not fat. so what's the problem with her?
okay, she's not fat. so what's the problem with her?	who said there is a problem with her?
who said there is a problem with her?	the problem is she has no problems?she's too good for me!
i think you're very pretty.	thank you.
thank you.	would you have dinner with me?
would you have dinner with me?	i would like to.
i would like to.	can i pick you up friday night?
can i pick you up friday night?	what time?
what time?	eight o'clock.
eight o'clock.	that sounds great.
that sounds great.	we'll go to a french restaurant.
we'll go to a french restaurant.	i've never been to a french restaurant.
i've never been to a french restaurant.	i think you'll love the food.
i think you'll love the food.	i'm not going to eat any snails!
you have pretty eyes.	thank you. so do you.
thank you. so do you.	i wish my eyes were blue.
i wish my eyes were blue.	what's the matter with green eyes?
what's the matter with green eyes?	nothing, except my favorite color is blue.
nothing, except my favorite color is blue.	maybe in your next life you'll have blue eyes.
maybe in your next life you'll have blue eyes.	but what if i'm a fish in my next life?
but what if i'm a fish in my next life?	i think some fish have blue eyes.
i think some fish have blue eyes.	i hope i don't come back as a fish.
i hope i don't come back as a fish.	i hope i come back as a cat.
i hope i come back as a cat.	cats have beautiful eyes.
cats have beautiful eyes.	i would love to have blue cat-eyes.
i love you.	i love you, too.
i love you, too.	i loved you the first day i saw you.
i loved you the first day i saw you.	it was love at first sight?
it was love at first sight?	yes, it was love at first sight.
yes, it was love at first sight.	i didn't love you at first.
i didn't love you at first.	i know. i had to chase you for a while.
i know. i had to chase you for a while.	yes, you chased me and then you caught me.
yes, you chased me and then you caught me.	now you're mine forever.
now you're mine forever.	and you're mine forever.
and you're mine forever.	we'll grow old together.
we'll grow old together.	and be happy together.
i'm in love with that girl.	have you told her?
have you told her?	of course not.
of course not.	why not?
why not?	she would laugh at me.
she would laugh at me.	how do you know?
how do you know?	because they always do.
because they always do.	maybe she's different.
maybe she's different.	they're all the same.
they're all the same.	just ask her out to dinner.
just ask her out to dinner.	and then what?
and then what?	and then she'll know that you like her.
give me a hug.	i'm not in the mood.
i'm not in the mood.	what's the matter?
what's the matter?	i saw you looking at that woman.
i saw you looking at that woman.	what woman?
what woman?	you know, that woman with the big boobs.
you know, that woman with the big boobs.	i was not looking at her.
i was not looking at her.	you were, too.
you were, too.	i'm not interested in her.
i'm not interested in her.	then why were you looking at her?
then why were you looking at her?	i was looking at something else.
i was looking at something else.	oh, really? then spend tonight looking at the sofa.
would you like to go on a blind date?	you must be joking.
you must be joking.	no, i'm serious.
no, i'm serious.	i don't want to date a blind woman.
i don't want to date a blind woman.	a blind date doesn't mean that she is blind!
a blind date doesn't mean that she is blind!	what does it mean?
what does it mean?	a blind date is a date with someone you don't know.
a blind date is a date with someone you don't know.	why would i date someone i don't even know?
why would i date someone i don't even know?	to try something new and exciting.
to try something new and exciting.	what if i don't like her?
what if i don't like her?	then you don't date her again.
i have a date tomorrow night.	really? who with?
really? who with?	a girl i met at the market.
a girl i met at the market.	you met a girl at the supermarket?
you met a girl at the supermarket?	she was standing behind me in a really slow line at the checkout counter.
she was standing behind me in a really slow line at the checkout counter.	what did you say to her?
what did you say to her?	i had two pineapples in my cart, and she asked where i had found them.
i had two pineapples in my cart, and she asked where i had found them.	she asked you about your pineapples?
she asked you about your pineapples?	i told her i had gotten the last two on the shelf, but i offered her one of mine.
i told her i had gotten the last two on the shelf, but i offered her one of mine.	that was nice of you.
that was nice of you.	she asked me how she could return the favor, so i asked her out.
she asked me how she could return the favor, so i asked her out.	sometimes a slow line can be a good thing.
did you have a date friday night?	yes, in fact, i did.
yes, in fact, i did.	who did you go out with?
who did you go out with?	a man i met in a coffee shop.
a man i met in a coffee shop.	where did you go?
where did you go?	we went to a nice restaurant.
we went to a nice restaurant.	anywhere else?
anywhere else?	then we went to a jazz club.
then we went to a jazz club.	that sounds like a nice date.
that sounds like a nice date.	yes, it was pleasant.
yes, it was pleasant.	but you won't date him again?
but you won't date him again?	no. he was nice, but there was no chemistry.
i had the worst date the other night.	what happened?
what happened?	first of all, he was half an hour late.
first of all, he was half an hour late.	that's not a good start.
that's not a good start.	then he didn't bother to apologize.
then he didn't bother to apologize.	that's rude.
that's rude.	then he drove too fast to the restaurant.
then he drove too fast to the restaurant.	that's dangerous.
that's dangerous.	i thought about getting out and taking a taxi home.
i thought about getting out and taking a taxi home.	what happened at the restaurant?
what happened at the restaurant?	we had a $40 meal, and he left a $1 tip!
we had a $40 meal, and he left a $1 tip!	i guess you can't go back to that restaurant.
i don't like that man.	why not?
why not?	he's a dirty old man.
he's a dirty old man.	what do you mean?
what do you mean?	he's old enough to be my father, yet he asked me out.
he's old enough to be my father, yet he asked me out.	well, you can't blame a man for asking.
well, you can't blame a man for asking.	he should act his age.
he should act his age.	but a lot of old people are still interested in dating.
but a lot of old people are still interested in dating.	they should find a nice hobby.
they should find a nice hobby.	just wait until you're 50 years old.
just wait until you're 50 years old.	dating will be the furthest thing from my mind.
dating will be the furthest thing from my mind.	that's what you say now. wait till you're 50.
does your girlfriend ever make you angry?	sometimes.
sometimes.	what does she do?
what does she do?	just yesterday, i told her i wouldn't trade her for all the money in the world.
just yesterday, i told her i wouldn't trade her for all the money in the world.	that was a nice thing to say.
that was a nice thing to say.	that's what i thought.
that's what i thought.	what did she say?
what did she say?	she laughed! she didn't believe me.
she laughed! she didn't believe me.	that wasn't very nice of her.
that wasn't very nice of her.	she said that nothing is more important to me than money.
she said that nothing is more important to me than money.	what did you say?
what did you say?	i told her i wouldn't trade her for any other woman in the world.
some people have good noses.	i wish i had a good nose. mine is way too big.
i wish i had a good nose. mine is way too big.	i don't mean good-looking. i mean good-smelling.
i don't mean good-looking. i mean good-smelling.	oh. but that can be a curse.
oh. but that can be a curse.	yes, because you can be too sensitive to odors.
yes, because you can be too sensitive to odors.	i'll say. my girlfriend has a nose like a drug dog.
i'll say. my girlfriend has a nose like a drug dog.	did she catch you using drugs?
did she catch you using drugs?	sort of. she knows whenever i sneak a cigarette.
sort of. she knows whenever i sneak a cigarette.	you don't need a good nose for that?cigarettes stink.
you don't need a good nose for that?cigarettes stink.	but when i sneak just one cigarette in the morning, she can smell it that evening!
but when i sneak just one cigarette in the morning, she can smell it that evening!	boy, that is a good nose.
boy, that is a good nose.	i told her she should apply for a job at customs.
let's go out to eat.	that sounds like fun.
that sounds like fun.	where do you want to go?
where do you want to go?	let me think a minute.
let me think a minute.	i feel like chinese.
i feel like chinese.	that sounds delicious.
that sounds delicious.	i know a good chinese restaurant.
i know a good chinese restaurant.	how far away is it?
how far away is it?	it's only 10 minutes from here.
it's only 10 minutes from here.	do we need reservations?
do we need reservations?	oh, no. we can walk right in.
oh, no. we can walk right in.	let's go now. i'm hungry!
i can't believe how long this line is.	this is a popular restaurant, isn't it?
this is a popular restaurant, isn't it?	yes, but it isn't a fast-food restaurant, is it?
yes, but it isn't a fast-food restaurant, is it?	it's the slowest hamburger in town.
it's the slowest hamburger in town.	that's because they cook it while you wait.
that's because they cook it while you wait.	yes. that's why it's also the best hamburger in town.
yes. that's why it's also the best hamburger in town.	a great burger and great service.
a great burger and great service.	yes, the workers are very polite.
yes, the workers are very polite.	and they're clean.
and they're clean.	i've been coming here for years.
i've been coming here for years.	me too.
me too.	excuse me. they just called my number.
lunch was delicious.	thank you.
thank you.	what kind of soup was that?
what kind of soup was that?	it was tomato soup.
it was tomato soup.	that tasted so good.
that tasted so good.	i put lemon and butter in it.
i put lemon and butter in it.	the sandwich was good, too.
the sandwich was good, too.	everyone likes bacon and tomato sandwiches.
everyone likes bacon and tomato sandwiches.	especially on toast.
especially on toast.	and the pickles were great, too.
and the pickles were great, too.	tomorrow we'll have rice and fish for lunch.
tomorrow we'll have rice and fish for lunch.	i can't wait.
i'm calling the waiter.	what's the matter?
what's the matter?	this steak has too much fat.
this steak has too much fat.	what do you want the waiter to do?
what do you want the waiter to do?	bring me a better steak.
bring me a better steak.	i wouldn't do that.
i wouldn't do that.	why not?
why not?	they will drop the new steak on the floor, step on it, and then spit on it.
they will drop the new steak on the floor, step on it, and then spit on it.	you're crazy.
you're crazy.	then the waiter will give you a big smile as he brings you the new steak.
then the waiter will give you a big smile as he brings you the new steak.	where do you get these crazy ideas?
where do you get these crazy ideas?	i used to cook in a restaurant!
let's leave.	but we just got here.
but we just got here.	did you see the waiter's hands?
did you see the waiter's hands?	no.
no.	he had dirty fingernails.
he had dirty fingernails.	really?
really?	his nails were black!
his nails were black!	that's disgusting.
that's disgusting.	and he poured water into our glasses.
and he poured water into our glasses.	yuck! no water for me.
yuck! no water for me.	i wonder if the cooks' nails are dirty, too.
i wonder if the cooks' nails are dirty, too.	who cares? let's get out of here.
this hot bread is delicious.	i like this restaurant because they give you free bread.
i like this restaurant because they give you free bread.	well, i think we are paying for it.
well, i think we are paying for it.	no. look at the bill when we get it. there's no charge for the bread.
no. look at the bill when we get it. there's no charge for the bread.	it is delicious, especially with butter.
it is delicious, especially with butter.	i think we should just leave after we fill up on the bread.
i think we should just leave after we fill up on the bread.	they probably wouldn't like that.
they probably wouldn't like that.	i'm eating so much bread that i'm getting full.
i'm eating so much bread that i'm getting full.	then stop eating the bread!
then stop eating the bread!	okay, just one more piece. pass the butter, please.
okay, just one more piece. pass the butter, please.	if i owned a restaurant, i would never serve hot bread before the main course.
if i owned a restaurant, i would never serve hot bread before the main course.	that's terrible. i would never go to your restaurant.
is this a clean restaurant?	well, the tables and chairs look okay.
well, the tables and chairs look okay.	okay, let's sit down.
okay, let's sit down.	check out the silverware.
check out the silverware.	it passes inspection.
it passes inspection.	here comes the waiter. see if his hands and nails are clean.
here comes the waiter. see if his hands and nails are clean.	well, the waiter looked clean, so i guess it's okay to eat here.
well, the waiter looked clean, so i guess it's okay to eat here.	you're forgetting about the bathroom.
you're forgetting about the bathroom.	i'm going to just hope that the bathroom is clean.
i'm going to just hope that the bathroom is clean.	you're not going to examine it before we order dinner?
you're not going to examine it before we order dinner?	no, i'd rather not find out that it's dirty, because i'm pretty hungry right now.
no, i'd rather not find out that it's dirty, because i'm pretty hungry right now.	me, too. let's forget about germs and focus on food.
have you seen our waiter?	here he comes now.
here he comes now.	we've been sitting here for almost 10 minutes.
we've been sitting here for almost 10 minutes.	oops, i guess i was wrong. that isn't our waiter.
oops, i guess i was wrong. that isn't our waiter.	we can give him five more minutes, and then leave.
we can give him five more minutes, and then leave.	i'll go up front and talk to the manager.
i'll go up front and talk to the manager.	that's a good idea.
that's a good idea.	maybe they'll give us free drinks for waiting so long.
maybe they'll give us free drinks for waiting so long.	maybe he'll send us our waiter immediately.
maybe he'll send us our waiter immediately.	every time we eat out, it's an adventure.
every time we eat out, it's an adventure.	last time, we got seats next to the kitchen.
last time, we got seats next to the kitchen.	we'll never go there again.
is this table okay?	no, it's too close to the kitchen door.
no, it's too close to the kitchen door.	how about this table?
how about this table?	no, it's too close to the front door.
no, it's too close to the front door.	this looks like a nice table.
this looks like a nice table.	no, it's too close to the salad bar.
no, it's too close to the salad bar.	okay, i give up.
okay, i give up.	well, there is one good table.
well, there is one good table.	great. which one?
great. which one?	that one. a group of eight just sat down at it.
i don't believe the art world.	what is it this time?
what is it this time?	an andy warhol drawing.
an andy warhol drawing.	he's a famous artist.
he's a famous artist.	he drew two butterflies and a flower on a napkin in a restaurant.
he drew two butterflies and a flower on a napkin in a restaurant.	did he sign it?
did he sign it?	yes.
yes.	is it beautiful?
is it beautiful?	it's just black ink on a white napkin. and the napkin has food stains!
it's just black ink on a white napkin. and the napkin has food stains!	so it's not worth much?
so it's not worth much?	only about $30,000.
only about $30,000.	without the food stains, it would probably be worth more.
can we go to the baseball game?	of course.
of course.	i love baseball.
i love baseball.	so do i.
so do i.	i love to eat the peanuts.
i love to eat the peanuts.	i love to eat the hot dogs.
i love to eat the hot dogs.	i hope we'll see a home run.
i hope we'll see a home run.	i hope we'll catch a foul ball.
i hope we'll catch a foul ball.	bring a jacket.
bring a jacket.	yes. it gets a little cool at night.
yes. it gets a little cool at night.	bring a glove to catch a foul ball.
bring a glove to catch a foul ball.	no. i'll just use my cap to catch a foul ball.
golf is a silly game.	it certainly is.
it certainly is.	you hit a white ball.
you hit a white ball.	and then you chase it.
and then you chase it.	and then you hit it again.
and then you hit it again.	finally, you put the ball into a hole in the ground.
finally, you put the ball into a hole in the ground.	you do this 18 times, because there are 18 holes.
you do this 18 times, because there are 18 holes.	what's the point?
what's the point?	how can it be fun?
how can it be fun?	they pay money to play this silly game!
they pay money to play this silly game!	i think golfers have a mental problem.
i think golfers have a mental problem.	i think they're nuts.
do you want to go fishing?	yes. that's a good idea.
yes. that's a good idea.	where do you want to go?
where do you want to go?	we can go to the river.
we can go to the river.	or we can go to the lake.
or we can go to the lake.	or we can go to the ocean.
or we can go to the ocean.	let's go to the lake.
let's go to the lake.	yes. the lake is only 10 miles away.
yes. the lake is only 10 miles away.	we can be there in 20 minutes.
we can be there in 20 minutes.	i'll get our fishing rods.
i'll get our fishing rods.	i'll get the bait.
i'll get the bait.	we'll have fresh fish for dinner!
baseball is fun.	i like to hit the ball.
i like to hit the ball.	i like to run around the bases.
i like to run around the bases.	i like to slide into the bases.
i like to slide into the bases.	yeah. it's a lot of fun to slide.
yeah. it's a lot of fun to slide.	i want to be a baseball player when i grow up.
i want to be a baseball player when i grow up.	me too. i want to play for the yankees.
me too. i want to play for the yankees.	not me. i want to play for the dodgers.
not me. i want to play for the dodgers.	we have to practice every day.
we have to practice every day.	i don't like practice.
i don't like practice.	me neither. it's boring.
me neither. it's boring.	but practice makes perfect.
let's go jogging.	that's a good idea.
that's a good idea.	i bought some new shoes.
i bought some new shoes.	are they comfortable?
are they comfortable?	they're very comfortable.
they're very comfortable.	how much were they?
how much were they?	they were on sale for $80.
they were on sale for $80.	do they help you run faster?
do they help you run faster?	no, but my feet don't hurt anymore.
no, but my feet don't hurt anymore.	then they're worth every penny.
then they're worth every penny.	you might want to buy a pair.
you might want to buy a pair.	i'll wait until i wear this pair out.
tiger is the greatest golfer in the world.	you can say that again.
you can say that again.	but i'm worried about tiger.
but i'm worried about tiger.	why is that?
why is that?	because he likes to scuba dive.
because he likes to scuba dive.	what's wrong with that?
what's wrong with that?	it can be dangerous.
it can be dangerous.	you mean he could drown.
you mean he could drown.	he shouldn't scuba dive until he retires.
he shouldn't scuba dive until he retires.	but he dives to relax.
but he dives to relax.	he might relax, but it makes me nervous.
he might relax, but it makes me nervous.	if his wife doesn't mind, you shouldn't mind.
did you watch that golf tournament?	the one that tiger won?
the one that tiger won?	how did he do it?
how did he do it?	it was nothing for him.
it was nothing for him.	he sank a 20-foot putt on the last hole to win by one stroke!
he sank a 20-foot putt on the last hole to win by one stroke!	he sank a 25-footer last year at the same tournament to win by one stroke.
he sank a 25-footer last year at the same tournament to win by one stroke.	i think he is from outer space.
i think he is from outer space.	no human could possibly play golf that well.
no human could possibly play golf that well.	whenever he needs a shot to win a tournament, he makes that shot.
whenever he needs a shot to win a tournament, he makes that shot.	no human can do that.
no human can do that.	somebody should check his birth record.
somebody should check his birth record.	i bet it says he was born on mars.
who's the greatest baseball player?	there are so many great players.
there are so many great players.	yes, but who is the greatest?
yes, but who is the greatest?	i'd have to say babe ruth.
i'd have to say babe ruth.	most people would say that.
most people would say that.	he changed the game.
he changed the game.	yes, he made the home run popular.
yes, he made the home run popular.	everybody loved him, all over the nation.
everybody loved him, all over the nation.	he helped make the yankees the best team ever.
he helped make the yankees the best team ever.	and ruth was a good person, too.
and ruth was a good person, too.	he always visited hospitals to cheer up sick kids.
he always visited hospitals to cheer up sick kids.	there will never be another babe.
did you hear what happened at the baseball game?	no, please tell me.
no, please tell me.	someone punched out someone.
someone punched out someone.	that's not nice.
that's not nice.	it's worse than that.
it's worse than that.	how so?
how so?	two guys got into an argument.
two guys got into an argument.	i'll bet they were drinking.
i'll bet they were drinking.	a third guy punched one of the two guys.
a third guy punched one of the two guys.	i'll bet he was drinking, too.
i'll bet he was drinking, too.	the victim hit his head on the concrete steps and died.
the victim hit his head on the concrete steps and died.	that's terrible. can't people just have fun at a baseball game?
i want to go to the ball game.	is there a game tonight?
is there a game tonight?	yes, it starts at 7 p.m.
yes, it starts at 7 p.m.	can we get tickets?
can we get tickets?	yes, but only the cheap tickets.
yes, but only the cheap tickets.	how much are they?
how much are they?	they're only $5 each.
they're only $5 each.	that's a good price.
that's a good price.	yes, it's cheaper than a hot dog or a beer.
yes, it's cheaper than a hot dog or a beer.	where are the seats?
where are the seats?	they're behind the outfield.
they're behind the outfield.	maybe we can catch a home run ball.
golf is so hard.	what's so hard about hitting a little white ball?
what's so hard about hitting a little white ball?	it's hard if you want to do it right.
it's hard if you want to do it right.	you mean like tiger?
you mean like tiger?	no, like a good amateur golfer.
no, like a good amateur golfer.	what's so hard about golf?
what's so hard about golf?	there are so many things you have to do right.
there are so many things you have to do right.	like what?
like what?	like keep your left arm straight, keep your head down, and follow through.
like keep your left arm straight, keep your head down, and follow through.	yikes! who can remember all that?
yikes! who can remember all that?	you need to get a lot of lessons when you're really young.
you need to get a lot of lessons when you're really young.	forget it. golf sounds more like work than fun.
did you hear about the ball player?	the home run hitter on drugs?
the home run hitter on drugs?	he said a doctor helped him with a personal problem.
he said a doctor helped him with a personal problem.	he said he wasn't using drugs.
he said he wasn't using drugs.	he apologized to the fans.
he apologized to the fans.	the league suspended him for 50 games.
the league suspended him for 50 games.	that will cost him some money.
that will cost him some money.	yes, about $7 million.
yes, about $7 million.	that will teach him a good lesson.
that will teach him a good lesson.	he probably won't use drugs anymore.
he probably won't use drugs anymore.	but it won't stop other players from using drugs.
but it won't stop other players from using drugs.	no. everyone always figures that they won't get caught.
why is there so much crime?	because parents don't teach their kids right from wrong.
because parents don't teach their kids right from wrong.	is that it?
is that it?	also, there aren't enough police.
also, there aren't enough police.	but there are a lot of police.
but there are a lot of police.	there's only one police officer per 100 criminals.
there's only one police officer per 100 criminals.	can't we hire more police?
can't we hire more police?	no. it costs too much money.
no. it costs too much money.	doesn't crime cost more than police?
doesn't crime cost more than police?	yes, it does.
yes, it does.	so it would be cheaper to hire more police?
so it would be cheaper to hire more police?	yes, it would.
this is a great neighborhood.	yes, it is.
yes, it is.	people are friendly.
people are friendly.	yes, they are.
yes, they are.	the streets and sidewalks are clean.
the streets and sidewalks are clean.	yes, they are.
yes, they are.	there's a real nice park nearby.
there's a real nice park nearby.	yes, there is.
yes, there is.	i feel safe here.
i feel safe here.	there is no crime here.
there is no crime here.	i wish i could move here.
i wish i could move here.	maybe you can, if someone moves out.
the house burned down.	what happened?
what happened?	the man fell asleep.
the man fell asleep.	was he smoking?
was he smoking?	yes, he was smoking a cigarette.
yes, he was smoking a cigarette.	did he die?
did he die?	yes, he did. his cat died, too.
yes, he did. his cat died, too.	that's too bad. what about his smoke alarm?
that's too bad. what about his smoke alarm?	the battery was dead.
the battery was dead.	a good battery would have saved his life.
a good battery would have saved his life.	he had cigarettes, but no battery.
he had cigarettes, but no battery.	it happens all the time.
they say he has started fifteen big fires.	he's been in jail three times already.
he's been in jail three times already.	why did they ever let him out?
why did they ever let him out?	it's the law. they can't keep him in jail forever.
it's the law. they can't keep him in jail forever.	why not? everyone knows he's a firebug. he loves to start fires.
why not? everyone knows he's a firebug. he loves to start fires.	i don't know. sometimes the law doesn't make sense.
i don't know. sometimes the law doesn't make sense.	but his latest fire killed someone.
but his latest fire killed someone.	this time they have charged him with murder.
this time they have charged him with murder.	so maybe he'll go to jail forever?
so maybe he'll go to jail forever?	i sure hope so.
i sure hope so.	someone should set him on fire.
someone should set him on fire.	that would teach him a good lesson.
put your seatbelt on.	why?
why?	because it will protect you in case of an accident.
because it will protect you in case of an accident.	but it's uncomfortable.
but it's uncomfortable.	it's the law.
it's the law.	it's so much trouble.
it's so much trouble.	it's common sense.
it's common sense.	it's so tight that it's hard for me to breathe.
it's so tight that it's hard for me to breathe.	hold your breath till we get there.
hold your breath till we get there.	okay, my seatbelt is on.
okay, my seatbelt is on.	i'm glad you don't complain very much.
i'm glad you don't complain very much.	i'm ready for an accident.
what are you doing?	i'm going to change the light bulb. it burnt out.
i'm going to change the light bulb. it burnt out.	what are you standing on?
what are you standing on?	a couple of dictionaries and some textbooks.
a couple of dictionaries and some textbooks.	are you crazy?
are you crazy?	what's the matter?
what's the matter?	those books will slip and you'll fall.
those books will slip and you'll fall.	it's only a couple of feet.
it's only a couple of feet.	what if you fall while you're holding the light bulb, and it breaks and pieces go into your eyes?
what if you fall while you're holding the light bulb, and it breaks and pieces go into your eyes?	i never thought about that.
i never thought about that.	you'd be blind for the rest of your life!
you'd be blind for the rest of your life!	i'll get the stepladder.
did you see that puddle of water on the floor?	yes. i called for a clean-up.
yes. i called for a clean-up.	a puddle of water is very dangerous.
a puddle of water is very dangerous.	it isn't easy to see.
it isn't easy to see.	but it's real easy to slip on.
but it's real easy to slip on.	especially on these slick floors.
especially on these slick floors.	someone who slips could hurt their back.
someone who slips could hurt their back.	they could even crack their head open.
they could even crack their head open.	we should stand here till the clean-up person gets here.
we should stand here till the clean-up person gets here.	we can leave if we put an orange cone here.
we can leave if we put an orange cone here.	yes, but i don't know where the orange cones are.
yes, but i don't know where the orange cones are.	 it doesn't matter. here he comes now with the mop.
what happens when the fire alarm rings?	we tell our students to leave the classroom.
we tell our students to leave the classroom.	can they take their belongings?
can they take their belongings?	yes, if they do it quickly.
yes, if they do it quickly.	where do the students go?
where do the students go?	they go out to the north parking lot.
they go out to the north parking lot.	what do the teachers do?
what do the teachers do?	we take our rosters to the parking lot and take roll.
we take our rosters to the parking lot and take roll.	why do you do that?
why do you do that?	we want to make sure all the students are out of the building.
we want to make sure all the students are out of the building.	if they are all outside, then what?
if they are all outside, then what?	then we just wait outside for a fireman to tell us to go back in.
i have to go back upstairs.	why? we're already late.
why? we're already late.	i have to check the stove.
i have to check the stove.	what's the matter?
what's the matter?	maybe i left the burner on.
maybe i left the burner on.	no, you didn't. i checked the stove before we left.
no, you didn't. i checked the stove before we left.	are you sure?
are you sure?	of course i'm sure.
of course i'm sure.	well, i have to go back upstairs anyway.
well, i have to go back upstairs anyway.	it's getting later every minute.
it's getting later every minute.	i think i left the water running.
i think i left the water running.	no, you didn't. let's go! the only thing running is the clock!
the city is buying guns.	what are they paying?
what are they paying?	up to $200 for each gun, no questions asked.
up to $200 for each gun, no questions asked.	why are they doing this?
why are they doing this?	they want to get guns off the street.
they want to get guns off the street.	who would turn in a gun for $200?
who would turn in a gun for $200?	that isn't a good deal?
that isn't a good deal?	a good gun costs $400 or more.
a good gun costs $400 or more.	well, if you bring your receipt, maybe they'll give you $400.
well, if you bring your receipt, maybe they'll give you $400.	i'll keep my receipt and my gun.
i'll keep my receipt and my gun.	i didn't know you had a gun.
i didn't know you had a gun.	everyone in america should have a gun.
you're yawning.	i sure am.
i sure am.	you should go to bed.
you should go to bed.	i will as soon as i finish this article.
i will as soon as i finish this article.	what are you reading?
what are you reading?	it's about crime in los angeles.
it's about crime in los angeles.	what does it say?
what does it say?	the mayor says the crime rate is going down.
the mayor says the crime rate is going down.	then why does everyone lock their doors?
then why does everyone lock their doors?	i guess they haven't read this article.
i guess they haven't read this article.	no one believes that the crime rate is going down.
no one believes that the crime rate is going down.	maybe the mayor is just talking about his own neighborhood.
people who live in california are crazy.	why is that?
why is that?	because of all the earthquakes and fires.
because of all the earthquakes and fires.	but big earthquakes happen only once in a while.
but big earthquakes happen only once in a while.	once in a while is once too many.
once in a while is once too many.	but you're right. there are a lot of fires.
but you're right. there are a lot of fires.	a recent fire destroyed 85 homes.
a recent fire destroyed 85 homes.	still, it's safer than florida.
still, it's safer than florida.	florida doesn't have earthquakes or fires.
florida doesn't have earthquakes or fires.	no, florida just has hurricanes every year from june to october.
no, florida just has hurricanes every year from june to october.	but most of those hurricanes are harmless.
but most of those hurricanes are harmless.	excuse me. hurricane andrew destroyed 30,000 homes!
i went to hawaii on vacation.	did you like it?
did you like it?	i loved it. i want to live there.
i loved it. i want to live there.	what did you like?
what did you like?	the island is so green, and the water is so blue.
the island is so green, and the water is so blue.	did you go swimming?
did you go swimming?	i went to the beach every day.
i went to the beach every day.	how was the weather?
how was the weather?	it was hot and sunny every day.
it was hot and sunny every day.	what did you do at night?
what did you do at night?	at night i went out to eat. the food was delicious.
at night i went out to eat. the food was delicious.	people who live in hawaii are lucky.
i like this hotel.	what do you like about it?
what do you like about it?	we get a free breakfast.
we get a free breakfast.	coffee and a roll?
coffee and a roll?	no, a real breakfast.
no, a real breakfast.	bacon and eggs?
bacon and eggs?	with toast, ham, sausage, fresh fruit, and juice.
with toast, ham, sausage, fresh fruit, and juice.	wow! that is nice. let's stay for two nights.
wow! that is nice. let's stay for two nights.	and the rooms are clean, too.
and the rooms are clean, too.	do they allow pets?
do they allow pets?	no pets, no smoking.
no pets, no smoking.	i like that. let's stay three nights.
i'm not sleeping here tonight.	what's the matter? this is a nice room.
what's the matter? this is a nice room.	maybe the room is nice, but not the bed.
maybe the room is nice, but not the bed.	what's wrong with the bed?
what's wrong with the bed?	look at this sheet.
look at this sheet.	yes?
yes?	see those stains?
see those stains?	i sure do.
i sure do.	i'm not sleeping on that sheet.
i'm not sleeping on that sheet.	well, just call the front desk. they'll give us new sheets.
well, just call the front desk. they'll give us new sheets.	i want sheets without stains on them.
i want sheets without stains on them.	from now on, let's bring our own sheets.
what time does your plane leave?	it leaves at 12:15.
it leaves at 12:15.	when do you have to be at the airport?
when do you have to be at the airport?	i have to be there two hours early.
i have to be there two hours early.	so we have to be at the airport at 10:15.
so we have to be at the airport at 10:15.	that means we have to leave the house at 9:15.
that means we have to leave the house at 9:15.	well, it's an hour to get there, if there are no traffic problems.
well, it's an hour to get there, if there are no traffic problems.	so maybe we better leave at 8:15?
so maybe we better leave at 8:15?	yes, it's better to get there too early than too late.
yes, it's better to get there too early than too late.	i agree.
i agree.	you never know what might happen on these freeways.
you never know what might happen on these freeways.	there's at least one huge accident every day.
i need to fly to new york.	when are you going?
when are you going?	during the christmas holidays.
during the christmas holidays.	you'd better buy your ticket now.
you'd better buy your ticket now.	you must be kidding.
you must be kidding.	no, i'm not. it's march. time is running out. seats are selling out right now.
no, i'm not. it's march. time is running out. seats are selling out right now.	i thought i would wait until october.
i thought i would wait until october.	i'll bet this is the first time you've ever flown during christmas.
i'll bet this is the first time you've ever flown during christmas.	you're right.
you're right.	well, listen to me. you need to buy a ticket now.
well, listen to me. you need to buy a ticket now.	but maybe prices will be cheaper in october.
but maybe prices will be cheaper in october.	cheaper prices won't do you any good if there are no seats.
i hate flying.	so do i.
so do i.	a long time ago, flying used to be okay.
a long time ago, flying used to be okay.	now it's like riding a bus.
now it's like riding a bus.	you're jammed in with people all around you.
you're jammed in with people all around you.	half of them are coughing, and the other half are sneezing.
half of them are coughing, and the other half are sneezing.	you don't have any elbow room or knee room.
you don't have any elbow room or knee room.	people are always getting up to use the bathroom.
people are always getting up to use the bathroom.	kids are crying or climbing over you.
kids are crying or climbing over you.	it's a flying zoo!
it's a flying zoo!	i wish i could afford first class seats.
i wish i could afford first class seats.	doesn't everybody?
some guy rowed across the atlantic ocean.	good for him.
good for him.	why would he do that?
why would he do that?	did he set a new record?
did he set a new record?	yes, i think he did.
yes, i think he did.	well, i guess that's why he did it.
well, i guess that's why he did it.	what's the point?
what's the point?	now he has the world record!
now he has the world record!	but someone's going to break it, so what good is it?
but someone's going to break it, so what good is it?	well, he can enjoy it while it lasts.
well, he can enjoy it while it lasts.	i don't think he even got paid for it.
i don't think he even got paid for it.	some people do it just to do it.
i want to go on a cruise ship.	that sounds like fun. where do you want to go?
that sounds like fun. where do you want to go?	i want to cruise to hawaii.
i want to cruise to hawaii.	that should be a nice trip. lots of fun, and lots of food.
that should be a nice trip. lots of fun, and lots of food.	i have no idea how much it will cost.
i have no idea how much it will cost.	i think it depends on the season and on your cabin.
i think it depends on the season and on your cabin.	well, of course i want to go when the weather is nice.
well, of course i want to go when the weather is nice.	yes, you don't want to travel in winter storms.
yes, you don't want to travel in winter storms.	and i want to get a big cabin with a view.
and i want to get a big cabin with a view.	are you going to travel alone?
are you going to travel alone?	no, my sister and i will travel together.
no, my sister and i will travel together.	well, you should go online and try to find a good deal.
i hate to fly.	because of all the security?
because of all the security?	no, because it hurts my ears.
no, because it hurts my ears.	what do you mean?
what do you mean?	every time we land or take off, my ears hurt so much.
every time we land or take off, my ears hurt so much.	that's just the altitude change, i think.
that's just the altitude change, i think.	whatever it is, it hurts.
whatever it is, it hurts.	can't you take medicine or something for it?
can't you take medicine or something for it?	i've tried everything, but nothing works.
i've tried everything, but nothing works.	have you tried earplugs?
have you tried earplugs?	they don't work, either.
they don't work, either.	well, be glad you're not a pilot.
spring break starts tomorrow.	are you going to go anywhere?
are you going to go anywhere?	i was thinking of driving to arizona.
i was thinking of driving to arizona.	to the grand canyon?
to the grand canyon?	yes. i've never been there.
yes. i've never been there.	i was there when i was a kid.
i was there when i was a kid.	how did you like it?
how did you like it?	i loved it. i still remember how amazing it was.
i loved it. i still remember how amazing it was.	i'm sure i'll like it, too.
i'm sure i'll like it, too.	you should try riding a mule on a trail to the bottom.
you should try riding a mule on a trail to the bottom.	no way! i don't want to fall to my death.
no way! i don't want to fall to my death.	don't worry. only one person has ever fallen off a mule.
that hotel was terrible.	the worst in the whole world.
the worst in the whole world.	the walls were so thin.
the walls were so thin.	all day long we heard tvs or telephones.
all day long we heard tvs or telephones.	all night long we heard people snoring.
all night long we heard people snoring.	housekeeping didn't give us fresh towels.
housekeeping didn't give us fresh towels.	room service brought us a cold dinner.
room service brought us a cold dinner.	our nonsmoking room stunk of cigarette smoke.
our nonsmoking room stunk of cigarette smoke.	our room was right next to the elevator and the ice machine.
our room was right next to the elevator and the ice machine.	they added phony charges to our bill.
they added phony charges to our bill.	how did we end up in that terrible hotel?
how did we end up in that terrible hotel?	the travel agent gave us a 50-percent discount!
i have to hang up. i'm so sleepy.	it's not even 10 o'clock.
it's not even 10 o'clock.	i'm falling asleep on the phone.
i'm falling asleep on the phone.	you got up real early.
you got up real early.	i had to take my friend to the airport.
i had to take my friend to the airport.	why didn't you take a nap when you got home?
why didn't you take a nap when you got home?	i didn't get home until 30 minutes ago.
i didn't get home until 30 minutes ago.	why is that?
why is that?	there was a bomb threat at the airport.
there was a bomb threat at the airport.	only a threat?
only a threat?	yes, but i was stuck there all day while they looked for the bomb.
yes, but i was stuck there all day while they looked for the bomb.	someday the bomb is going to be for real.
my dad went to washington, d.c.	why did he do that?
why did he do that?	he was invited, along with about 90 other veterans.
he was invited, along with about 90 other veterans.	who invited them?
who invited them?	some private organization.
some private organization.	why did they invite him?
why did they invite him?	to thank him and all the other soldiers who served in world war ii.
to thank him and all the other soldiers who served in world war ii.	that's very nice.
that's very nice.	my dad got to see the beautiful new world war ii monument.
my dad got to see the beautiful new world war ii monument.	that trip must have cost a lot of money. 
that trip must have cost a lot of money. 	he said all the money came from private donations.
that was a great trip to washington, d.c.	tell me about it, dad.
tell me about it, dad.	about 90 of us world war ii veterans got on the plane at 8 a.m.
about 90 of us world war ii veterans got on the plane at 8 a.m.	how long was the flight?
how long was the flight?	it only took about two hours.
it only took about two hours.	did you take pictures at the world war ii monument?
did you take pictures at the world war ii monument?	oh, yes. we all took lots of pictures.
oh, yes. we all took lots of pictures.	then you flew back home that evening?
then you flew back home that evening?	yes. when we landed, tv reporters and the army band were there.
yes. when we landed, tv reporters and the army band were there.	that must have made you feel really special.
that must have made you feel really special.	oh, it did. there were about 300 people there to honor us.
oh, it did. there were about 300 people there to honor us.	well, you all deserve it. you helped save our country.
i need a job.	i thought you had a job.
i thought you had a job.	i did.
i did.	what happened?
what happened?	i got laid off.
i got laid off.	that's terrible! when did it happen?
that's terrible! when did it happen?	i got laid off last week.
i got laid off last week.	just you?
just you?	no, ten of my coworkers got laid off, too.
no, ten of my coworkers got laid off, too.	what are you going to do?
what are you going to do?	i'm looking in the newspaper for a job.
i'm looking in the newspaper for a job.	good luck!
before you go to that interview, check yourself.	what's to check?
what's to check?	are your nails clean?
are your nails clean?	yes, they are.
yes, they are.	did you double-check your nose and teeth?
did you double-check your nose and teeth?	they are clean, too.
they are clean, too.	did you shine your shoes?
did you shine your shoes?	my shoes are shined.
my shoes are shined.	do your socks match?
do your socks match?	of course they match.
of course they match.	no, they don't. one is black and one is dark blue.
no, they don't. one is black and one is dark blue.	yikes! thank you.
life is hard.	it sure is.
it sure is.	i thought school was hard.
i thought school was hard.	me, too. i couldn't wait to graduate.
me, too. i couldn't wait to graduate.	but now work is hard, too.
but now work is hard, too.	i agree. work is just as hard as school.
i agree. work is just as hard as school.	sometimes i wish i was back in school.
sometimes i wish i was back in school.	me, too. school was fun.
me, too. school was fun.	and it was only 12 years.
and it was only 12 years.	it went by pretty fast.
it went by pretty fast.	but work goes on forever!
but work goes on forever!	we have to work for 30 years!
i'm sleepy.	so am i.
so am i.	i had a long day.
i had a long day.	so did i.
so did i.	i didn't even have lunch.
i didn't even have lunch.	neither did i.
neither did i.	i was busy the whole day.
i was busy the whole day.	so was i.
so was i.	i had to bring work home with me.
i had to bring work home with me.	i did too.
i did too.	your day was just like mine.
your day was just like mine.	of course it was. we work together!
i don't like my job.	what do you do?
what do you do?	i'm a babysitter.
i'm a babysitter.	is that a lot of work?
is that a lot of work?	babies cry all the time.
babies cry all the time.	you have to change their diapers.
you have to change their diapers.	i have to feed them.
i have to feed them.	are you looking for another job?
are you looking for another job?	no, i'm looking for another family.
no, i'm looking for another family.	another family?
another family?	a family with only one baby.
a family with only one baby.	that's a good idea.
i need a job.	what was your last job?
what was your last job?	i was a painter.
i was a painter.	what happened?
what happened?	i got laid off because there was no work.
i got laid off because there was no work.	what else can you do?
what else can you do?	i'm a handyman.
i'm a handyman.	can you fix a dripping faucet in a kitchen sink?
can you fix a dripping faucet in a kitchen sink?	of course.
of course.	then i have a job for you in my kitchen.
then i have a job for you in my kitchen.	it will cost you only $20 plus parts.
it will cost you only $20 plus parts.	okay. that sounds like a fair price.
what would you do if you lost your job?	i have no idea. i've been here for 20 years.
i have no idea. i've been here for 20 years.	do you have any other skills?
do you have any other skills?	well, i know how to flip hamburgers.
well, i know how to flip hamburgers.	no one would hire you to flip hamburgers.
no one would hire you to flip hamburgers.	have you heard something that you're not telling me?
have you heard something that you're not telling me?	what do you mean?
what do you mean?	are there going to be layoffs at this place?
are there going to be layoffs at this place?	i certainly hope not!
i certainly hope not!	if you got laid off, you'd be flipping hamburgers, too.
if you got laid off, you'd be flipping hamburgers, too.	oh great, we could both work at burger king.
oh great, we could both work at burger king.	maybe we'd get laid off there, too.
do your students ever talk about their jobs?	yes, and they ask me what jobs are the best.
yes, and they ask me what jobs are the best.	i tell my students to become a teacher.
i tell my students to become a teacher.	teaching is a great job.
teaching is a great job.	it's the best job i've ever had.
it's the best job i've ever had.	what makes it so good?
what makes it so good?	for me, it's the students.
for me, it's the students.	what do you mean?
what do you mean?	i mean i have wonderful students.
i mean i have wonderful students.	that must be nice.
that must be nice.	teaching is the best part of my whole day.
teaching is the best part of my whole day.	you're a lucky man to have a job you love.
boy, i'm glad that job is finished.	how long did it take?
how long did it take?	four hours, without a break.
four hours, without a break.	it's always nice to finish a job.
it's always nice to finish a job.	well, it's good and bad.
well, it's good and bad.	what's bad about it?
what's bad about it?	when you finish, all you do is start another job!
when you finish, all you do is start another job!	yes, that's right. it does get boring.
yes, that's right. it does get boring.	especially if it's the same work, over and over.
especially if it's the same work, over and over.	but that's what most people do.
but that's what most people do.	yes, i guess most of us are stuck in a routine.
yes, i guess most of us are stuck in a routine.	i wonder if there is any job that you don't repeat over and over.
i think i have the worst boss in the world.	what makes him so bad?
what makes him so bad?	he's rude and he yells a lot.
he's rude and he yells a lot.	that's hard to take.
that's hard to take.	i've never heard him say please or thank you.
i've never heard him say please or thank you.	he sounds like a real jerk.
he sounds like a real jerk.	no one at work likes him.
no one at work likes him.	can't you report him to his supervisor?
can't you report him to his supervisor?	of course not. if i do that, i'll lose my job.
of course not. if i do that, i'll lose my job.	yes, they don't like troublemakers or complainers.
yes, they don't like troublemakers or complainers.	i can't quit, because i'm making a good salary.
i can't quit, because i'm making a good salary.	you shouldn't choose money over happiness.
what are we going to do?	about what?
about what?	about finding a job for me.
about finding a job for me.	you don't need a job. i make enough money for both of us.
you don't need a job. i make enough money for both of us.	that doesn't matter. i don't want to sit around.
that doesn't matter. i don't want to sit around.	okay, what kind of job do you want?
okay, what kind of job do you want?	i'm not sure.
i'm not sure.	well, you should do something that you enjoy.
well, you should do something that you enjoy.	i enjoy selling. i was born to sell.
i enjoy selling. i was born to sell.	okay, what do you want to sell?
okay, what do you want to sell?	cigarette lighters. i'll make a fortune.
cigarette lighters. i'll make a fortune.	but you hate cigarettes and you hate smoking!
a new hotel is looking for workers.	yes, i saw it on the tv news.
yes, i saw it on the tv news.	they need 300 new workers.
they need 300 new workers.	and 4,000 people showed up.
and 4,000 people showed up.	so many people are out of work.
so many people are out of work.	i still have my job, thank goodness.
i still have my job, thank goodness.	so do i, but i'm worried.
so do i, but i'm worried.	me too. there are no guarantees.
me too. there are no guarantees.	if you lose your job, you can move in with me.
if you lose your job, you can move in with me.	oh, thank you. that's very nice of you.
oh, thank you. that's very nice of you.	you would do the same for me.
you would do the same for me.	of course. what are friends for?
i think i did something real stupid.	what did you do?
what did you do?	i bought some stock.
i bought some stock.	everybody buys stock.
everybody buys stock.	i bought it on a hunch.
i bought it on a hunch.	you didn't read about the company first?
you didn't read about the company first?	i didn't have to. it's been in business for 60 years.
i didn't have to. it's been in business for 60 years.	so what's the problem?
so what's the problem?	i used all my savings on this one company.
i used all my savings on this one company.	you put all your eggs into one basket.
you put all your eggs into one basket.	if the company goes out of business, i'll have nothing.
if the company goes out of business, i'll have nothing.	oh, you'll have something?you'll have a lesson you'll never forget!
i was going to be a doctor.	what happened to your plans?
what happened to your plans?	i got a d in college chemistry.
i got a d in college chemistry.	well, a d is better than an f.
well, a d is better than an f.	a tutor helped me get the d!
a tutor helped me get the d!	so, you didn't become a doctor.
so, you didn't become a doctor.	and now i'm glad that i didn't.
and now i'm glad that i didn't.	why's that?
why's that?	a hospital is the most dangerous place in the world.
a hospital is the most dangerous place in the world.	oh, yes, because of all the killer germs.
oh, yes, because of all the killer germs.	if you're a smart doctor, you stay away from hospitals.
if you're a smart doctor, you stay away from hospitals.	yes, the smart doctors are those tv news doctors?no hospitals, no patients.
i want to be a mail carrier when i grow up.	why?
why?	because you get to meet a lot of people.
because you get to meet a lot of people.	you sure do.
you sure do.	and you get a lot of exercise every day.
and you get a lot of exercise every day.	that's the truth.
that's the truth.	and you get to play with a lot of dogs.
and you get to play with a lot of dogs.	well, you're supposed to be working.
well, you're supposed to be working.	yes, but i will always pet the friendly dogs.
yes, but i will always pet the friendly dogs.	what about the unfriendly dogs?
what about the unfriendly dogs?	i think if you are friendly to dogs, they are friendly to you.
i think if you are friendly to dogs, they are friendly to you.	dogs are like people?not all of them are friendly.
i want to move to new york.	to the state or the city?
to the state or the city?	to the city, of course.
to the city, of course.	why do you want to move there?
why do you want to move there?	because i want to make a lot of money.
because i want to make a lot of money.	there are a lot of poor people in new york.
there are a lot of poor people in new york.	there sure are?at least a million.
there sure are?at least a million.	so how do you plan to become rich?
so how do you plan to become rich?	i will knock on the doors of all the corporations.
i will knock on the doors of all the corporations.	that won't make you rich. nobody will talk to you.
that won't make you rich. nobody will talk to you.	i will keep knocking on doors.
i will keep knocking on doors.	all you will get is sore knuckles.
i love salads.	me too.
me too.	i usually eat a simple salad.
i usually eat a simple salad.	what do you put in it?
what do you put in it?	just lettuce, tomato, and celery.
just lettuce, tomato, and celery.	that's it?
that's it?	i add some pepper and salt.
i add some pepper and salt.	i always put cheese in my salads.
i always put cheese in my salads.	yes, cheese is nice.
yes, cheese is nice.	what kind of dressing do you use?
what kind of dressing do you use?	i pour lots of french dressing on top.
i pour lots of french dressing on top.	me too. french dressing is so delicious! who cares about calories?
i love cheese.	me too.
me too.	where does cheese come from?
where does cheese come from?	it comes from cows.
it comes from cows.	so we get cheese from cows, and we get milk, too?
so we get cheese from cows, and we get milk, too?	yes, we do.
yes, we do.	what else do we get from cows?
what else do we get from cows?	we get hamburgers and steak.
we get hamburgers and steak.	oh, that's so delicious.
oh, that's so delicious.	we also get leather.
we also get leather.	we get a lot of things from cows, don't we?
we get a lot of things from cows, don't we?	yes. a cow is man's best friend.
i used to work in a deli.	how did you like it?
how did you like it?	i loved it!
i loved it!	did you get free food?
did you get free food?	i ate free cheese and meat every day.
i ate free cheese and meat every day.	that sounds like a great job.
that sounds like a great job.	whatever a customer ordered, i sliced off a little more for me.
whatever a customer ordered, i sliced off a little more for me.	did you get fat?
did you get fat?	no, but i did put on a few pounds.
no, but i did put on a few pounds.	that sounds like a dream job.
that sounds like a dream job.	it was, until one day my manager caught me.
it was, until one day my manager caught me.	no more free cheese for you, huh?
i'm on a new diet.	what are you eating now?
what are you eating now?	i switched from pasta to potatoes.
i switched from pasta to potatoes.	why did you do that?
why did you do that?	pasta is processed food. potatoes are natural food.
pasta is processed food. potatoes are natural food.	natural food has more vitamins.
natural food has more vitamins.	and it's just as easy to prepare.
and it's just as easy to prepare.	how do you prepare the potatoes?
how do you prepare the potatoes?	i wash them, and then steam them for 15 minutes.
i wash them, and then steam them for 15 minutes.	that's pretty simple.
that's pretty simple.	then i add butter, salt, and pepper.
then i add butter, salt, and pepper.	can i have all those cans of tomato sauce you bought for your pasta?
my girlfriend's mom got mad at me at the dinner table.	why was that?
why was that?	i sprinkled salt and pepper on the food before i tasted it.
i sprinkled salt and pepper on the food before i tasted it.	what's the matter with that?
what's the matter with that?	her mom is a great cook.
her mom is a great cook.	so, a little salt and pepper never hurt anything.
so, a little salt and pepper never hurt anything.	it hurt her feelings.
it hurt her feelings.	oh.
oh.	i apologized to her, but i could tell she was still upset.
i apologized to her, but i could tell she was still upset.	maybe you shouldn't eat there again.
maybe you shouldn't eat there again.	i'm sure everything will be okay in a day or two.
i'm sure everything will be okay in a day or two.	it's your girlfriend's fault. she should have warned you.
i eat the same thing every day.	you're kidding.
you're kidding.	no, i'm serious.
no, i'm serious.	doesn't that get old?
doesn't that get old?	no, because i'm eating food that i like.
no, because i'm eating food that i like.	but the same thing day after day gets old.
but the same thing day after day gets old.	well, i guess if it ever does get old, i'll change to something different.
well, i guess if it ever does get old, i'll change to something different.	do you eat fruits and vegetables every day?
do you eat fruits and vegetables every day?	no, i hate vegetables.
no, i hate vegetables.	but you eat fruits.
but you eat fruits.	i eat two apples, one banana, and one orange every day.
i eat two apples, one banana, and one orange every day.	well, there's nothing wrong with that.
there's something wrong with my orange.	what's wrong?
what's wrong?	it's not orange!
it's not orange!	your orange isn't orange?
your orange isn't orange?	no, it's dark pink!
no, it's dark pink!	are you sure? i never heard of such a thing.
are you sure? i never heard of such a thing.	i just peeled it, and i'm looking at it right now.
i just peeled it, and i'm looking at it right now.	let me see. yes, you're right. your orange is pink.
let me see. yes, you're right. your orange is pink.	who ever heard of such a thing?
who ever heard of such a thing?	oh, look. here's the little sticker that was on it. it's called a pink navel.
oh, look. here's the little sticker that was on it. it's called a pink navel.	what is this world coming to?
what is this world coming to?	who knows? maybe soon we'll have pink bananas.
i love peanuts.	me, too. i love them roasted and salted.
me, too. i love them roasted and salted.	i love boiled peanuts.
i love boiled peanuts.	boiled? i never heard of that.
boiled? i never heard of that.	just boil raw peanuts in salt water until the shells are soft.
just boil raw peanuts in salt water until the shells are soft.	i'll have to try them sometime.
i'll have to try them sometime.	they're best when they're hot.
they're best when they're hot.	my brother is allergic to peanuts.
my brother is allergic to peanuts.	that's not good.
that's not good.	no, it isn't. he almost died when he was little.
no, it isn't. he almost died when he was little.	i guess he has to be very careful about what he eats.
i guess he has to be very careful about what he eats.	he has a very strict diet.
i'm gaining weight.	how much have you gained?
how much have you gained?	three pounds just this month.
three pounds just this month.	do you know why?
do you know why?	i think it's the ice cream.
i think it's the ice cream.	you started eating ice cream?
you started eating ice cream?	it was on sale.
it was on sale.	how much did you buy?
how much did you buy?	i filled up my freezer with ice cream.
i filled up my freezer with ice cream.	well, it won't last forever.
well, it won't last forever.	no, i figure i'll finish it all by next week.
no, i figure i'll finish it all by next week.	then you can start losing weight, if there isn't another sale.
i'm stuffed.	of course you are. you ate everything on the table.
of course you are. you ate everything on the table.	i don't like to eat leftovers.
i don't like to eat leftovers.	i'm glad to hear there's something you don't like to eat.
i'm glad to hear there's something you don't like to eat.	i like my food hot and fresh.
i like my food hot and fresh.	you like to see it disappear.
you like to see it disappear.	i don't like it reheated.
i don't like it reheated.	well, you'll have hot fresh food tomorrow night.
well, you'll have hot fresh food tomorrow night.	i'm so full i'm going to burst.
i'm so full i'm going to burst.	you should loosen your belt.
you should loosen your belt.	i already loosened my belt and unbuttoned my pants.
i already loosened my belt and unbuttoned my pants.	well, don't stand up, please.
i saw what you did.	i didn't do anything.
i didn't do anything.	oh yes, you did.
oh yes, you did.	what are you talking about?
what are you talking about?	you know what i'm talking about.
you know what i'm talking about.	i don't have any idea.
i don't have any idea.	you know what you did.
you know what you did.	maybe i know, but how could you know?
maybe i know, but how could you know?	because i was watching you.
because i was watching you.	okay, i'm sorry i did it.
okay, i'm sorry i did it.	don't drink milk out of the carton. use a glass!
don't drink milk out of the carton. use a glass!	i promise i'll never drink out of the carton again.
i like that shirt.	so do i.
so do i.	how much is it?
how much is it?	i don't know. the tag is missing.
i don't know. the tag is missing.	ask the clerk.
ask the clerk.	i will.
i will.	oh, look. here's another shirt just like it.
oh, look. here's another shirt just like it.	does it have a price tag?
does it have a price tag?	yes, it does. it's only $20.
yes, it does. it's only $20.	that's a great price.
that's a great price.	i think i'll buy both of them.
i think i'll buy both of them.	you'd better try them on first.
i bought you a pair of pants.	thank you.
thank you.	i hope they fit.
i hope they fit.	i hope you kept the receipt.
i hope you kept the receipt.	you think they won't fit?
you think they won't fit?	i think i've put on some weight.
i think i've put on some weight.	you think?
you think?	maybe a pound or two.
maybe a pound or two.	maybe four or five pounds?
maybe four or five pounds?	my waist is bigger than it was.
my waist is bigger than it was.	no problem. these pants have an elastic waistband.
no problem. these pants have an elastic waistband.	you are so smart!
what do we need to buy?	let me look at our list.
let me look at our list.	i know that we need milk.
i know that we need milk.	nonfat.
nonfat.	of course. what else?
of course. what else?	we need cheese, bread, and ham.
we need cheese, bread, and ham.	what kind of cheese?
what kind of cheese?	swiss.
swiss.	of course, the cheese with holes in it.
of course, the cheese with holes in it.	i never used to buy swiss cheese.
i never used to buy swiss cheese.	why not?
why not?	i didn't want to pay for the holes.
i need some pants.	i thought you just bought a pair.
i thought you just bought a pair.	i did.
i did.	what's wrong with them so soon?
what's wrong with them so soon?	the pants are fine, but the pocket has a huge hole in it.
the pants are fine, but the pocket has a huge hole in it.	you shouldn't carry your keys and pens in your pocket.
you shouldn't carry your keys and pens in your pocket.	but that's what pockets are for.
but that's what pockets are for.	you should carry them in a purse.
you should carry them in a purse.	i'm a man, and men don't carry purses!
i'm a man, and men don't carry purses!	well, you should buy pants with stronger pockets.
well, you should buy pants with stronger pockets.	i would if i could find someone who makes strong pockets.
i would if i could find someone who makes strong pockets.	try a google search online.
what are those wipes for?	you use them to wipe the handle of the shopping cart.
you use them to wipe the handle of the shopping cart.	that's a great idea.
that's a great idea.	yes, all the markets just started offering wipes to shoppers.
yes, all the markets just started offering wipes to shoppers.	i'm going to take five wipes.
i'm going to take five wipes.	what do you need five of them for?
what do you need five of them for?	one to wipe the handle, and the others to wipe the produce.
one to wipe the handle, and the others to wipe the produce.	what's the matter with the produce?
what's the matter with the produce?	do you think the bananas fell from the sky?
do you think the bananas fell from the sky?	what do you mean?
what do you mean?	i mean, someone used their dirty hands to pick the bananas, the apples, and the oranges.
i mean, someone used their dirty hands to pick the bananas, the apples, and the oranges.	well, you better save a wipe for the dirty dollar bills you're going to pay with.
did you go to the 99 cents store?	yes, i did.
yes, i did.	what did you buy?
what did you buy?	well, i got a lot of good deals, as usual.
well, i got a lot of good deals, as usual.	like what?
like what?	well, a dozen large eggs were only 99 cents.
well, a dozen large eggs were only 99 cents.	that's a good deal.
that's a good deal.	and a one-pound tub of soft butter was the same price.
and a one-pound tub of soft butter was the same price.	another good deal.
another good deal.	but the best deal was five pounds of potatoes for 99 cents.
but the best deal was five pounds of potatoes for 99 cents.	i don't know how that store makes money.
i don't know how that store makes money.	neither do i, but they're doing something right.
i need a new computer.	what's the matter with yours?
what's the matter with yours?	it's six years old.
it's six years old.	that's pretty old.
that's pretty old.	it still works, but i'm going to give it to a charity.
it still works, but i'm going to give it to a charity.	are you going to buy a desktop or laptop?
are you going to buy a desktop or laptop?	oh, a laptop, of course.
oh, a laptop, of course.	a pc or a mac?
a pc or a mac?	i haven't decided yet.
i haven't decided yet.	more and more people are using macs.
more and more people are using macs.	but 90 percent of the world uses pcs.
but 90 percent of the world uses pcs.	and that's not going to change anytime soon.
i got ripped off.	what happened?
what happened?	i had a car problem, so i went online.
i had a car problem, so i went online.	did you find a solution?
did you find a solution?	yes, i did. a site i went to said they would send me the solution.
yes, i did. a site i went to said they would send me the solution.	so, what's the problem?
so, what's the problem?	i sent them $20 using my credit card, but they never sent me the solution.
i sent them $20 using my credit card, but they never sent me the solution.	what are you going to do?
what are you going to do?	i sent them an email asking for my money back.
i sent them an email asking for my money back.	have you heard from them?
have you heard from them?	not yet. it's been a week.
not yet. it's been a week.	well, i guess that's a $20 lesson for you.
where's the pencil sharpener?	which one?
which one?	any one. i need to sharpen this pencil.
any one. i need to sharpen this pencil.	i think there's one on the dining room table.
i think there's one on the dining room table.	i already looked there.
i already looked there.	did you look in the desk drawer?
did you look in the desk drawer?	yes, i looked there, too.
yes, i looked there, too.	don't we have about five sharpeners?
don't we have about five sharpeners?	yes, but they seem to have legs.
yes, but they seem to have legs.	tomorrow i'm going to buy an electric sharpener.
tomorrow i'm going to buy an electric sharpener.	get one with the rubber suction cups on the bottom.
get one with the rubber suction cups on the bottom.	yes. that way it will stay where i put it.
i'm trying to stretch my dollars.	how are you doing that?
how are you doing that?	i started shopping at the dollar store.
i started shopping at the dollar store.	that saves a lot of money.
that saves a lot of money.	i bought three pounds of potatoes for a dollar.
i bought three pounds of potatoes for a dollar.	that's a good deal.
that's a good deal.	yes, even though some of the potatoes had eyes.
yes, even though some of the potatoes had eyes.	just put them in the fridge.
just put them in the fridge.	also, i bought a can of cheap coffee and a bag of good coffee.
also, i bought a can of cheap coffee and a bag of good coffee.	why did you do that?
why did you do that?	i mixed them together.
i mixed them together.	if the coffee still tastes okay, that's a good idea.
i really like this house.	can we afford it?
can we afford it?	they want 20 percent down.
they want 20 percent down.	that's a lot of money.
that's a lot of money.	but the house is so nice.
but the house is so nice.	it's in a great neighborhood.
it's in a great neighborhood.	it's close to the beach.
it's close to the beach.	it's close to the freeways.
it's close to the freeways.	it's got a big yard.
it's got a big yard.	the kids love the house, too.
the kids love the house, too.	if we don't buy it, someone else will.
if we don't buy it, someone else will.	you're right. let's buy it now. we can worry later.
we can't afford this house.	are you sure?
are you sure?	we will be house rich, but cash poor.
we will be house rich, but cash poor.	what do you mean?
what do you mean?	our monthly payments will be too high.
our monthly payments will be too high.	we won't have any money for other things?
we won't have any money for other things?	no, we won't have money for gas or food.
no, we won't have money for gas or food.	we'll be eating peanut butter sandwiches?
we'll be eating peanut butter sandwiches?	without the peanut butter!
without the peanut butter!	that's no good!
that's no good!	we have to find a cheaper house.
we have to find a cheaper house.	of course. we can't live without gas or peanut butter.
that is a beautiful house.	i don't like it.
i don't like it.	what's the matter with it?
what's the matter with it?	it's on the corner.
it's on the corner.	so?
so?	that means it gets twice as much traffic.
that means it gets twice as much traffic.	you're right.
you're right.	when you're inside, you will always hear cars stopping and stopping at the intersection.
when you're inside, you will always hear cars stopping and stopping at the intersection.	or you'll hear the collision if someone doesn't stop.
or you'll hear the collision if someone doesn't stop.	or you'll see the collision if they crash into the house.
or you'll see the collision if they crash into the house.	let's find a house that's at the end of a dead end.
let's find a house that's at the end of a dead end.	that's perfect. the less traffic, the better.
i hate looking for an apartment.	me, too.
me, too.	we have a 2 o'clock appointment to see the one on main street.
we have a 2 o'clock appointment to see the one on main street.	we'd better get ready to go.
we'd better get ready to go.	it's an upstairs unit.
it's an upstairs unit.	that's good, because i don't want to live under people with loud feet.
that's good, because i don't want to live under people with loud feet.	and it's a corner unit.
and it's a corner unit.	that's great. we won't have neighbors on both sides of us.
that's great. we won't have neighbors on both sides of us.	no pets are allowed.
no pets are allowed.	perfect. we don't have to listen to barking dogs.
perfect. we don't have to listen to barking dogs.	and there are only six units in the whole building.
and there are only six units in the whole building.	where's the checkbook? i'm ready to rent it without even seeing it.
did you call the manager?	yes. he said he'd come over tomorrow.
yes. he said he'd come over tomorrow.	did he say what time?
did he say what time?	yes. he said he'd be here at 9 o'clock.
yes. he said he'd be here at 9 o'clock.	did he understand what the problem is?
did he understand what the problem is?	yes. i told him our doorbell doesn't work.
yes. i told him our doorbell doesn't work.	it shouldn't take him long to fix it.
it shouldn't take him long to fix it.	i don't even know why we need to fix it.
i don't even know why we need to fix it.	in case we have visitors.
in case we have visitors.	but they can just knock on the door.
but they can just knock on the door.	actually, i want him to look at our carpet, too.
actually, i want him to look at our carpet, too.	yes, it would be nice if he'd give us a new carpet.
do you like this house?	yes, it's beautiful.
yes, it's beautiful.	it's perfect for us and the kids.
it's perfect for us and the kids.	three bedrooms, three bathrooms, and a big back yard.
three bedrooms, three bathrooms, and a big back yard.	and we can afford it!
and we can afford it!	so are we going to buy it?
so are we going to buy it?	i'm afraid not.
i'm afraid not.	it's too far from your job, isn't it?
it's too far from your job, isn't it?	i can't spend four hours on the road every day.
i can't spend four hours on the road every day.	by the time you get home, you'll be too tired to even eat.
by the time you get home, you'll be too tired to even eat.	i won't be able to play with the kids.
i won't be able to play with the kids.	no, we have to find something closer to your job.
boy, it's chilly outside, isn't it?	it sure is.
it sure is.	in fact, it's chilly in the apartment, too.
in fact, it's chilly in the apartment, too.	let's turn on the heat.
let's turn on the heat.	i'll check to make sure that all the windows are shut.
i'll check to make sure that all the windows are shut.	it should be warmer in a few minutes.
it should be warmer in a few minutes.	it's so nice to have a heated apartment.
it's so nice to have a heated apartment.	how did they survive in the old days?
how did they survive in the old days?	they had fireplaces.
they had fireplaces.	someone had to chop the wood.
someone had to chop the wood.	and carry it into the house.
and carry it into the house.	all we have to do is flip a switch.
this is a nice neighborhood.	the streets are clean and quiet.
the streets are clean and quiet.	the neighbors don't party on the weekends.
the neighbors don't party on the weekends.	people take care of their lawns.
people take care of their lawns.	no rusty old cars are sitting in the front yards.
no rusty old cars are sitting in the front yards.	we never have to call the police about anything.
we never have to call the police about anything.	our kids are completely safe.
our kids are completely safe.	so why are we selling our house?
so why are we selling our house?	they're building a 3-story apartment building on the corner.
they're building a 3-story apartment building on the corner.	so we've got to sell before property values go down?
so we've got to sell before property values go down?	yes. i still can't believe our city council allowed this building.
yes. i still can't believe our city council allowed this building.	they're probably getting something under the table.
that was a huge fire in santa barbara.	yes, it was.
yes, it was.	they said about 30 houses burned to the ground.
they said about 30 houses burned to the ground.	and they were expensive houses.
and they were expensive houses.	i feel so sorry for those people.
i feel so sorry for those people.	why feel sorry for rich people?
why feel sorry for rich people?	i feel sorry for anyone who loses their home.
i feel sorry for anyone who loses their home.	so do i, but not if they're rich.
so do i, but not if they're rich.	what does that have to do with it?
what does that have to do with it?	rich people think they're better than us.
rich people think they're better than us.	how many rich people do you know?
how many rich people do you know?	none.
bears are invading our neighborhoods.	of course they are. they're starving to death.
of course they are. they're starving to death.	they should stay in the woods where they belong.
they should stay in the woods where they belong.	there's no food in the woods.
there's no food in the woods.	can't they eat grass?
can't they eat grass?	do you think a bear is a cow?
do you think a bear is a cow?	well, i've seen them eating berries.
well, i've seen them eating berries.	berries aren't in season all year round.
berries aren't in season all year round.	it's too dangerous for kids and pets.
it's too dangerous for kids and pets.	people need to cover their trash cans.
people need to cover their trash cans.	the police need to shoot all the bears.
the police need to shoot all the bears.	you don't solve a problem by shooting it.
who did you vote for?	i voted for obama.
i voted for obama.	me too.
me too.	he will be a great president.
he will be a great president.	everyone likes him.
everyone likes him.	he's a good speaker.
he's a good speaker.	and he's really smart.
and he's really smart.	he will solve our problems.
he will solve our problems.	he will end the war.
he will end the war.	the next four years will be good years.
the next four years will be good years.	i'll vote for him next time, too.
i'll vote for him next time, too.	i think everyone will.
the election is next week.	who are you voting for?
who are you voting for?	i'm not voting for the mayor.
i'm not voting for the mayor.	why not?
why not?	he made promises that he didn't keep.
he made promises that he didn't keep.	like what?
like what?	he promised to hire 1,000 more police officers.
he promised to hire 1,000 more police officers.	how many did he hire?
how many did he hire?	one hundred!
one hundred!	maybe he had a good reason.
maybe he had a good reason.	maybe he's just a liar.
maybe he's just a liar.	maybe i'll vote for someone else, too.
i can't believe he won the election.	only 15 percent of the voters turned out.
only 15 percent of the voters turned out.	that is a joke.
that is a joke.	voting is so important, but people don't bother.
voting is so important, but people don't bother.	many people think their vote doesn't matter.
many people think their vote doesn't matter.	the mayor won by only 2,000 votes.
the mayor won by only 2,000 votes.	we're stuck with him for four more years.
we're stuck with him for four more years.	voting is so easy. you can even mail your ballot in.
voting is so easy. you can even mail your ballot in.	all you have to do is vote and put a stamp on it.
all you have to do is vote and put a stamp on it.	how easy is that?
how easy is that?	i guess people just don't care.
i guess people just don't care.	they'll care when they see their taxes go up.
well, we have a new president.	but we have the same old problems.
but we have the same old problems.	well, he's made a few changes.
well, he's made a few changes.	like what?
like what?	i think he closed the bowling alley in the white house.
i think he closed the bowling alley in the white house.	oh, yeah. he's changing it to a basketball court.
oh, yeah. he's changing it to a basketball court.	who's paying for that?
who's paying for that?	i think we are!
i think we are!	well, that's okay, as long as it helps him relax and think more clearly.
well, that's okay, as long as it helps him relax and think more clearly.	yes, we need a relaxed president who thinks clearly.
yes, we need a relaxed president who thinks clearly.	do any other world leaders have a basketball court?
do any other world leaders have a basketball court?	they will. you know america always leads the way.
people say that everybody loves obama.	well, more than 50 million people voted for mccain.
well, more than 50 million people voted for mccain.	that's 50 million people who don't love obama.
that's 50 million people who don't love obama.	obama's got four years to make everyone happy.
obama's got four years to make everyone happy.	he's never going to make everyone happy.
he's never going to make everyone happy.	can you imagine being president?
can you imagine being president?	everyone wants you to solve their problems.
everyone wants you to solve their problems.	i have enough stress from trying to solve my own problems.
i have enough stress from trying to solve my own problems.	you and everybody else.
you and everybody else.	i would never want to be president.
i would never want to be president.	but think about all the power you'd have.
but think about all the power you'd have.	i prefer my quiet little life to all the power in the world.
did you read this article?	what article?
what article?	it says the mayor spends only 11 percent of his time on city duties.
it says the mayor spends only 11 percent of his time on city duties.	only 11 percent?
only 11 percent?	about 50 percent of the time he's traveling.
about 50 percent of the time he's traveling.	where does he travel to?
where does he travel to?	oh, all over the world.
oh, all over the world.	but he's supposed to be making our city a better place.
but he's supposed to be making our city a better place.	he's visiting other cities to get ideas.
he's visiting other cities to get ideas.	can't he just go online?
can't he just go online?	the rest of the time he's raising money for his reelection.
the rest of the time he's raising money for his reelection.	well, he'll never get reelected once this news gets out.
who did you vote for for president?	i voted for ralph nader.
i voted for ralph nader.	who in the world is ralph nader?
who in the world is ralph nader?	he's the best man for president.
he's the best man for president.	why's that?
why's that?	he hates corporations.
he hates corporations.	well, most corporations do think only about money.
well, most corporations do think only about money.	he hates democrats and republicans.
he hates democrats and republicans.	well, they do put their party before their country.
well, they do put their party before their country.	he's the only candidate that i trust.
he's the only candidate that i trust.	but he didn't have a chance. nobody voted for him!
but he didn't have a chance. nobody voted for him!	sooner or later, voters will wake up.
i don't know why i bother to vote.	why's that?
why's that?	what good does it do?
what good does it do?	you get to put someone in power that you like.
you get to put someone in power that you like.	only if my candidate wins.
only if my candidate wins.	well, he can't win unless you and others vote for him.
well, he can't win unless you and others vote for him.	but even if my candidate wins, he'll break his promises.
but even if my candidate wins, he'll break his promises.	that's true. they promise anything just so they get elected.
that's true. they promise anything just so they get elected.	and when elected, they go their own way.
and when elected, they go their own way.	they forget who put them in power.
they forget who put them in power.	they forget where they came from.
they forget where they came from.	maybe you should run for office.
that election for u.s. senator stunk.	what do you mean?
what do you mean?	there were more votes than voters!
there were more votes than voters!	but that's impossible.
but that's impossible.	officials said that it's possible.
officials said that it's possible.	did they explain how it's possible?
did they explain how it's possible?	no. they said there are some things you can't explain.
no. they said there are some things you can't explain.	so are they going to hold another election?
so are they going to hold another election?	no. that will cost too much money.
no. that will cost too much money.	so it's better to save money than to have an honest election?
so it's better to save money than to have an honest election?	well, the democratic party says it was an honest election.
well, the democratic party says it was an honest election.	of course they say that?their man won!
i see that former president bush is at a conference.	yes. he's telling jokes about his eight years as president.
yes. he's telling jokes about his eight years as president.	yes, those eight years were a lot of fun for everyone.
yes, those eight years were a lot of fun for everyone.	only 4,000 american soldiers were killed overseas.
only 4,000 american soldiers were killed overseas.	not to mention 40,000 wounded soldiers.
not to mention 40,000 wounded soldiers.	but bush visited some of them in the hospital once.
but bush visited some of them in the hospital once.	that's nice that he found the time to make a visit.
that's nice that he found the time to make a visit.	he spoke to them and made them feel better.
he spoke to them and made them feel better.	did he speak to every family that lost a soldier?
did he speak to every family that lost a soldier?	no, he didn't have time to do that.
no, he didn't have time to do that.	well, he's got plenty of time now!
well, he's got plenty of time now!	no, he's too busy writing a book about how hard it was to be president.
did you get your official sample ballot?	yes, with the voter instructions.
yes, with the voter instructions.	how are you going to vote?
how are you going to vote?	same as ever, by mail. all it costs me is a 42-cent stamp.
same as ever, by mail. all it costs me is a 42-cent stamp.	i meant, are you going to vote for or against the new taxes?
i meant, are you going to vote for or against the new taxes?	against all of them, of course.
against all of them, of course.	but we need new taxes to pay for highways, schools, and prisons.
but we need new taxes to pay for highways, schools, and prisons.	we've already voted for new taxes to pay for all that stuff!
we've already voted for new taxes to pay for all that stuff!	that's true. where did that money go?
that's true. where did that money go?	our legislators spent it on first-class travel all over the world.
our legislators spent it on first-class travel all over the world.	they are having a good time with our money.
they are having a good time with our money.	so when are we going to stop giving them more?
have you decided how you are going to vote?	do you mean on measures 1, 2, and 3?
do you mean on measures 1, 2, and 3?	yes. the ones that will improve our schools, roads, and hospitals.
yes. the ones that will improve our schools, roads, and hospitals.	you mean the measures that will raise our taxes.
you mean the measures that will raise our taxes.	but the tv ads say that our taxes will not increase.
but the tv ads say that our taxes will not increase.	do you believe the tv ads?
do you believe the tv ads?	i like the one where the fireman tells us why we should vote yes.
i like the one where the fireman tells us why we should vote yes.	don't believe him! whatever the tv ads tell you, the opposite is true.
don't believe him! whatever the tv ads tell you, the opposite is true.	but the title of measure 1 is "better schools at no cost."
but the title of measure 1 is "better schools at no cost."	the title should be "better schools at huge cost."
the title should be "better schools at huge cost."	i can't believe that they would lie to us.
i can't believe that they would lie to us.	of course they lie?that's what politicians do!
i have a stomachache.	is it something you ate?
is it something you ate?	maybe. i'm not sure.
maybe. i'm not sure.	what did you have for breakfast?
what did you have for breakfast?	the usual, cereal with milk and a banana.
the usual, cereal with milk and a banana.	maybe the milk was bad.
maybe the milk was bad.	it didn't smell bad.
it didn't smell bad.	maybe the banana was bad.
maybe the banana was bad.	no, the banana was delicious.
no, the banana was delicious.	maybe you just need to go to the bathroom.
maybe you just need to go to the bathroom.	no, that's not the problem.
no, that's not the problem.	maybe it will go away in a little while.
what's this stain?	i don't know.
i don't know.	it looks like blood.
it looks like blood.	i think my nose was bleeding.
i think my nose was bleeding.	you should wet your shirt immediately.
you should wet your shirt immediately.	why?
why?	because that gets the blood out of the shirt.
because that gets the blood out of the shirt.	what's a little blood?
what's a little blood?	your white shirt is ruined.
your white shirt is ruined.	so, i'll just buy another one.
so, i'll just buy another one.	you can wear this one around the house.
you can wear this one around the house.	next time i'll soak it immediately.
my fingers hurt.	why do they hurt?
why do they hurt?	i type too much.
i type too much.	you should take a break.
you should take a break.	i need to type to make money.
i need to type to make money.	but typing is causing you pain.
but typing is causing you pain.	maybe i should see a doctor.
maybe i should see a doctor.	doctors are too expensive.
doctors are too expensive.	he might tell me to rest for a while.
he might tell me to rest for a while.	he might want to cut you open.
he might want to cut you open.	he might say i'm okay.
he might say i'm okay.	he might say you have bone cancer.
what did the doctor say?	he thinks i have too much stress.
he thinks i have too much stress.	stress causes your stomachaches?
stress causes your stomachaches?	stress causes different problems with different people.
stress causes different problems with different people.	so what did he tell you to do?
so what did he tell you to do?	he said i need to think positive.
he said i need to think positive.	he didn't give you any medication?
he didn't give you any medication?	i hate medication. it makes me feel different.
i hate medication. it makes me feel different.	so how do you think positive?
so how do you think positive?	i think about nice things.
i think about nice things.	like what?
like what?	like a day at the beach, with my toes in the sand.
i cut my finger.	how did you do that?
how did you do that?	it's a paper cut.
it's a paper cut.	paper can be dangerous.
paper can be dangerous.	it hurts, too.
it hurts, too.	paper cuts can hurt a lot.
paper cuts can hurt a lot.	where are the band-aids?
where are the band-aids?	i think they're in the medicine cabinet.
i think they're in the medicine cabinet.	it's on the tip of my finger.
it's on the tip of my finger.	a band-aid might not work.
a band-aid might not work.	i must not use this finger until the cut heals.
i must not use this finger until the cut heals.	it might take a day or two to heal.
do you smell that?	oh, yes.
oh, yes.	i can't stand cigarette smoke.
i can't stand cigarette smoke.	it smells so bad.
it smells so bad.	one cigarette stinks up the whole sidewalk.
one cigarette stinks up the whole sidewalk.	smokers think they are so cool.
smokers think they are so cool.	they are so weak.
they are so weak.	a little cigarette controls them.
a little cigarette controls them.	they look so stupid taking a puff.
they look so stupid taking a puff.	and then they blow smoke out of their mouth.
and then they blow smoke out of their mouth.	they think it's cool.
they think it's cool.	cigarettes stink.
do you have a cold?	yes, i do.
yes, i do.	how did you get it?
how did you get it?	my sister had a cold. she gave it to me.
my sister had a cold. she gave it to me.	have you taken anything for your cold?
have you taken anything for your cold?	no, i just blow my nose a lot.
no, i just blow my nose a lot.	your nose is stopped up?
your nose is stopped up?	yes. i have to breathe through my mouth.
yes. i have to breathe through my mouth.	have you tried nose drops?
have you tried nose drops?	no, i don't like nose drops.
no, i don't like nose drops.	they work great.
they work great.	i don't care. i don't like to put drops in my nose.
would you put suntan lotion on my back, please?	sure.
sure.	thank you.
thank you.	you shouldn't lie in the sun for too long.
you shouldn't lie in the sun for too long.	i want to get a tan. i don't want to look so pale.
i want to get a tan. i don't want to look so pale.	what's wrong with looking pale?
what's wrong with looking pale?	people think you might be sick.
people think you might be sick.	who thinks that?
who thinks that?	i don't know.
i don't know.	it's better to be pale than to have skin cancer.
it's better to be pale than to have skin cancer.	i know that.
i know that.	so why are you arguing with me? don't lie in the sun too long!
i can't quit smoking.	of course you can.
of course you can.	i don't have enough will power.
i don't have enough will power.	of course you do.
of course you do.	i wish i had never started.
i wish i had never started.	so does every smoker.
so does every smoker.	i've tried to quit so many times.
i've tried to quit so many times.	so has everyone else.
so has everyone else.	nothing seems to work.
nothing seems to work.	all it takes is will power, and you have it.
all it takes is will power, and you have it.	then why can't i quit?
then why can't i quit?	you have to believe in yourself.
my back is killing me.	what did you do?
what did you do?	i got out of my car.
i got out of my car.	that's it?
that's it?	i injured my back one time just by sneezing.
i injured my back one time just by sneezing.	you should see a doctor.
you should see a doctor.	my doctor said i need surgery.
my doctor said i need surgery.	so?
so?	so, forget it.
so, forget it.	you don't have the money?
you don't have the money?	i have no insurance.
i have no insurance.	maybe a back rub would help.
my brother smokes three packs a day.	three packs of what?
three packs of what?	cigarettes, of course.
cigarettes, of course.	how can he do that?
how can he do that?	when he is almost finished with one cigarette, he uses it to light another.
when he is almost finished with one cigarette, he uses it to light another.	he's a chain smoker.
he's a chain smoker.	he's been a chain smoker for 30 years.
he's been a chain smoker for 30 years.	that's unbelievable. can he still breathe?
that's unbelievable. can he still breathe?	he can, but the people around him can't.
he can, but the people around him can't.	how can he still be alive?
how can he still be alive?	his doctor says his heart and lungs are strong and healthy.
his doctor says his heart and lungs are strong and healthy.	maybe i should start smoking.
i hate brushing my teeth.	it's such a chore.
it's such a chore.	brush, brush. spit, spit.
brush, brush. spit, spit.	what did they do in the old days?
what did they do in the old days?	they brushed with their fingers.
they brushed with their fingers.	they also ate with their fingers!
they also ate with their fingers!	why do they call it the good old days?
why do they call it the good old days?	maybe because they didn't have to brush and floss.
maybe because they didn't have to brush and floss.	who invented flossing?
who invented flossing?	a dentist, i'm sure.
a dentist, i'm sure.	i hate flossing more than brushing!
i hate flossing more than brushing!	i can't wait till all my teeth fall out.
let's stop for a while. i need a break and some water.	this trail is hard to climb.
this trail is hard to climb.	especially on a hot day like this.
especially on a hot day like this.	i can't believe we haven't seen any animals.
i can't believe we haven't seen any animals.	thank goodness! i don't want to see any wild animals.
thank goodness! i don't want to see any wild animals.	all we've seen so far is a couple of lizards.
all we've seen so far is a couple of lizards.	we're hiking to lose weight, not to see goats and bears.
we're hiking to lose weight, not to see goats and bears.	i bet i've lost a couple of pounds already.
i bet i've lost a couple of pounds already.	all you've lost is some sweat.
all you've lost is some sweat.	i haven't even lost one pound of fat?
i haven't even lost one pound of fat?	if you want to lose fat, you've got to do this hike every day.
if you want to lose fat, you've got to do this hike every day.	okay, but let's hike in town. at least there are cats and dogs to see.
oh no, another pimple on my face.	pimples suck.
pimples suck.	it seems like i get a new pimple almost every day.
it seems like i get a new pimple almost every day.	maybe it's something in your diet.
maybe it's something in your diet.	no, i eat the same things day after day.
no, i eat the same things day after day.	then maybe it's in your genes.
then maybe it's in your genes.	you might be right.
you might be right.	do pimples run in your family?
do pimples run in your family?	not that i've noticed.
not that i've noticed.	well, maybe it's from the pollution in the air.
well, maybe it's from the pollution in the air.	whatever the cause, i hate seeing them on my face.
whatever the cause, i hate seeing them on my face.	well, on the bright side, they're fun to pop.
do you believe everything you hear?	i don't believe anything i don't see with my own eyes.
i don't believe anything i don't see with my own eyes.	you can't believe what you hear on tv or radio.
you can't believe what you hear on tv or radio.	you can't believe what you read in the newspapers.
you can't believe what you read in the newspapers.	everyone tells you a different story about the same thing.
everyone tells you a different story about the same thing.	three different people will give you three different stories.
three different people will give you three different stories.	and the government will give you a fourth story.
and the government will give you a fourth story.	yes, like the government says not to worry about the swine flu.
yes, like the government says not to worry about the swine flu.	but the swine flu just killed 20 people in mexico.
but the swine flu just killed 20 people in mexico.	the government says we have nothing to worry about.
the government says we have nothing to worry about.	then why are some schools telling the kids to stay home?
then why are some schools telling the kids to stay home?	the government says to wash our hands frequently, and we'll all be okay.
don't pick your nose.	i wasn't picking my nose.
i wasn't picking my nose.	what were you doing?
what were you doing?	i was scratching my nose.
i was scratching my nose.	i think i know the difference between picking and scratching.
i think i know the difference between picking and scratching.	okay, mom, maybe i was picking it a little bit.
okay, mom, maybe i was picking it a little bit.	use a tissue next time.
use a tissue next time.	i didn't have a tissue.
i didn't have a tissue.	then wait till you find a tissue.
then wait till you find a tissue.	i couldn't wait. it was an emergency.
i couldn't wait. it was an emergency.	oh, really? maybe you should have called 911.
oh, really? maybe you should have called 911.	it wasn't that kind of emergency.
our tv remote is filthy.	yes, it's covered with crud.
yes, it's covered with crud.	i'm going to clean it.
i'm going to clean it.	don't use water on it!
don't use water on it!	i'll use a damp cloth.
i'll use a damp cloth.	don't let water get into any of the cracks.
don't let water get into any of the cracks.	i'll squeeze the cloth so it's almost dry.
i'll squeeze the cloth so it's almost dry.	don't rub the numbers off the remote.
don't rub the numbers off the remote.	i will rub gently but firmly.
i will rub gently but firmly.	do it quickly, please, so i can change channels during commercials.
do it quickly, please, so i can change channels during commercials.	i'll give it back to you in a couple of minutes.
i'll give it back to you in a couple of minutes.	maybe we should put it in a plastic bag to keep it clean.
my ear is killing me.	what's the matter?
what's the matter?	i was on a plane.
i was on a plane.	so?
so?	so, every time the plane goes up, my ear starts to hurt.
so, every time the plane goes up, my ear starts to hurt.	that's no good.
that's no good.	sometimes the pain goes away, and sometimes it doesn't.
sometimes the pain goes away, and sometimes it doesn't.	have you seen a doctor?
have you seen a doctor?	i've been to two doctors.
i've been to two doctors.	and they couldn't fix your problem?
and they couldn't fix your problem?	they both said i have to live with it.
they both said i have to live with it.	or you can stay off planes.
did you see the woman with the new face?	did she get a nice job?
did she get a nice job?	she got an "everything" job!
she got an "everything" job!	what do you mean?
what do you mean?	a team of doctors gave her a whole new face.
a team of doctors gave her a whole new face.	why did they do that?
why did they do that?	a mad dog bit most of her face off.
a mad dog bit most of her face off.	oh, that's terrible. what does she look like now?
oh, that's terrible. what does she look like now?	her face is really fat, but they say the swelling will go down.
her face is really fat, but they say the swelling will go down.	and then will she look normal again?
and then will she look normal again?	i guess so.
i guess so.	god bless modern medicine.
there's something wrong with my right hand.	what's wrong with it?
what's wrong with it?	it aches most of the time.
it aches most of the time.	what do you think it is?
what do you think it is?	i don't know. i think it's old age.
i don't know. i think it's old age.	if it's old age, why don't both of your hands hurt?
if it's old age, why don't both of your hands hurt?	that's a good question. maybe it's not old age.
that's a good question. maybe it's not old age.	are you right-handed?
are you right-handed?	yes. all my life.
yes. all my life.	you're wearing out your right hand. stop using it so much.
you're wearing out your right hand. stop using it so much.	but i do all my writing with my right hand.
but i do all my writing with my right hand.	start typing instead. that way your left hand will do half the work.
hi there!	hello! how's your day going?
hello! how's your day going?	it's going well, thanks. and yours?
it's going well, thanks. and yours?	not too bad, just keeping busy.
not too bad, just keeping busy.	what have you been up to?
what have you been up to?	just working on a few projects.
just working on a few projects.	oh, sounds interesting. what kind of projects?
oh, sounds interesting. what kind of projects?	I've been working on some new coding challenges.
I've been working on some new coding challenges.	that's great! How's that going for you?
that's great! How's that going for you?	It's going well. I've learned a lot.
It's going well. I've learned a lot.	that's awesome to hear. Anything specific you found interesting?
that's awesome to hear. Anything specific you found interesting?	I've really enjoyed learning about machine learning algorithms.
I've really enjoyed learning about machine learning algorithms.	that sounds fascinating. Keep it up!
that sounds fascinating. Keep it up!	thank you! I appreciate the encouragement.
thank you! I appreciate the encouragement.	no problem. What's on your agenda for today?
no problem. What's on your agenda for today?	I'm planning to work on a new project and then relax.
I'm planning to work on a new project and then relax.	sounds like a good plan. Enjoy your day!
sounds like a good plan. Enjoy your day!	thanks! You too.
thanks! You too.	bye for now!
bye for now!	see you later!
see you later!	how was your weekend?
how was your weekend?	it was pretty relaxing. I spent time with family.
it was pretty relaxing. I spent time with family.	nice! Family time is always good. What did you do?
nice! Family time is always good. What did you do?	We had a small barbecue and played some games.
We had a small barbecue and played some games.	that sounds like a lot of fun. What games did you play?
that sounds like a lot of fun. What games did you play?	We played board games and a few outdoor sports.
We played board games and a few outdoor sports.	sounds like a blast. Did you win any of the games?
sounds like a blast. Did you win any of the games?	Not really. We all had a good time though.
Not really. We all had a good time though.	that's what matters most. Did you do anything else?
that's what matters most. Did you do anything else?	Just some relaxing and catching up on reading.
Just some relaxing and catching up on reading.	nice way to unwind. What book are you reading?
nice way to unwind. What book are you reading?	I'm reading a mystery novel. It's pretty gripping.
I'm reading a mystery novel. It's pretty gripping.	awesome! I love a good mystery. How's it so far?
awesome! I love a good mystery. How's it so far?	It's been really engaging. I can't wait to see how it ends.
It's been really engaging. I can't wait to see how it ends.	sounds like a great read. Enjoy the rest of it!
sounds like a great read. Enjoy the rest of it!	thank you! I'll let you know how it turns out.
thank you! I'll let you know how it turns out.	looking forward to hearing about it.
looking forward to hearing about it.	see you soon!
see you soon!	take care!
take care!	have a great day!
have a great day!	thanks, you too!
thanks, you too!	bye!
bye!	chat soon!
chat soon!	hello! how's your week going?
hello! how's your week going?	so far, it's been good. How about yours?
so far, it's been good. How about yours?	I've been quite busy with work.
I've been quite busy with work.	what kind of work have you been doing?
what kind of work have you been doing?	I've been working on some new projects and meetings.
I've been working on some new projects and meetings.	hope everything is going smoothly.
hope everything is going smoothly.	so far, so good. How's your work going?
so far, so good. How's your work going?	It's going well. I'm in the middle of a big project.
It's going well. I'm in the middle of a big project.	that sounds intense. What’s the project about?
that sounds intense. What’s the project about?	It's a new software development project.
It's a new software development project.	that sounds interesting. What stage are you at?
that sounds interesting. What stage are you at?	I'm currently working on the testing phase.
I'm currently working on the testing phase.	hope it goes well. Testing can be a challenge.
hope it goes well. Testing can be a challenge.	yes, it can be, but I'm making progress.
yes, it can be, but I'm making progress.	that’s great to hear. Keep up the good work!
that’s great to hear. Keep up the good work!	thanks! I will. 
thanks! I will.	chat later!
chat later!	see you!
see you!	have a nice day!
have a nice day!	you too!
you too!	take care!
hi!	hello! How's your day so far?
hello! How's your day so far?	It's been pretty good. What about yours?
It's been pretty good. What about yours?	I'm having a great day, thanks for asking!
I'm having a great day, thanks for asking!	Glad to hear that! Any plans for the rest of the day?
Glad to hear that! Any plans for the rest of the day?	Just relaxing and maybe catching up on some reading.
Just relaxing and maybe catching up on some reading.	That sounds nice. What book are you reading?
That sounds nice. What book are you reading?	I'm reading a novel about historical events.
I'm reading a novel about historical events.	Interesting! How's it so far?
Interesting! How's it so far?	It's really engaging. I’m learning a lot.
It's really engaging. I’m learning a lot.	That's great. Do you have any weekend plans?
That's great. Do you have any weekend plans?	Yes, I’m planning to visit a museum.
Yes, I’m planning to visit a museum.	That sounds like a fun outing. Which museum?
That sounds like a fun outing. Which museum?	The science museum downtown. I’ve heard good things about it.
The science museum downtown. I’ve heard good things about it.	Enjoy your visit! Museums can be so fascinating.
Enjoy your visit! Museums can be so fascinating.	Thank you! I’m looking forward to it.
Thank you! I’m looking forward to it.	You’re welcome! What’s your favorite thing to do on weekends?
You’re welcome! What’s your favorite thing to do on weekends?	I enjoy hiking and exploring new trails.
I enjoy hiking and exploring new trails.	That sounds like a great way to stay active and enjoy nature.
That sounds like a great way to stay active and enjoy nature.	Yes, it’s very refreshing. Do you have any hobbies?
Yes, it’s very refreshing. Do you have any hobbies?	I like cooking and trying out new recipes.
I like cooking and trying out new recipes.	That’s wonderful! What’s the latest dish you made?
That’s wonderful! What’s the latest dish you made?	I made a homemade lasagna last night.
I made a homemade lasagna last night.	Yum! How did it turn out?
Yum! How did it turn out?	It turned out delicious! Everyone enjoyed it.
It turned out delicious! Everyone enjoyed it.	That’s awesome. Cooking for others must be rewarding.
That’s awesome. Cooking for others must be rewarding.	Definitely! It’s always nice to see people enjoy your food.
Definitely! It’s always nice to see people enjoy your food.	Absolutely. Do you like to bake as well?
Absolutely. Do you like to bake as well?	Yes, I enjoy baking cookies and cakes.
Yes, I enjoy baking cookies and cakes.	That sounds fun. What’s your favorite thing to bake?
That sounds fun. What’s your favorite thing to bake?	Chocolate chip cookies are my favorite.
Chocolate chip cookies are my favorite.	Classic choice! They’re always a hit.
Classic choice! They’re always a hit.	Yes, they are. Do you have a favorite dessert?
Yes, they are. Do you have a favorite dessert?	I love cheesecake. It’s so creamy and delicious.
I love cheesecake. It’s so creamy and delicious.	Great choice! Do you make your own cheesecake?
Great choice! Do you make your own cheesecake?	I do, sometimes. It’s fun to experiment with flavors.
I do, sometimes. It’s fun to experiment with flavors.	That sounds like a lot of fun. Do you have any special recipes?
That sounds like a lot of fun. Do you have any special recipes?	Yes, I have a recipe for strawberry cheesecake that’s a hit.
Yes, I have a recipe for strawberry cheesecake that’s a hit.	That sounds amazing. I might have to try making that.
That sounds amazing. I might have to try making that.	You should! It’s quite delicious.
You should! It’s quite delicious.	I’ll definitely consider it. Thanks for the tip!
I’ll definitely consider it. Thanks for the tip!	No problem. Let me know how it turns out!
No problem. Let me know how it turns out!	I will. Have you tried making any new dishes recently?
I will. Have you tried making any new dishes recently?	Yes, I recently tried making sushi at home.
Yes, I recently tried making sushi at home.	How was that? Making sushi sounds challenging.
How was that? Making sushi sounds challenging.	It was a bit tricky, but it turned out great.
It was a bit tricky, but it turned out great.	That’s impressive! I bet it tasted amazing.
That’s impressive! I bet it tasted amazing.	It did! It was worth the effort.
It did! It was worth the effort.	I’ll have to try making sushi sometime. Any tips for beginners?
I’ll have to try making sushi sometime. Any tips for beginners?	Start with simple rolls and use good quality ingredients.
Start with simple rolls and use good quality ingredients.	Good advice. I’ll keep that in mind.
Good advice. I’ll keep that in mind.	Glad to help! Do you like to travel?
Glad to help! Do you like to travel?	I do! I love exploring new places and cultures.
I do! I love exploring new places and cultures.	That’s great. What’s your favorite travel destination?
That’s great. What’s your favorite travel destination?	I’d have to say Japan. The culture and food are amazing.
I’d have to say Japan. The culture and food are amazing.	Japan sounds incredible. What did you enjoy most about it?
Japan sounds incredible. What did you enjoy most about it?	The cherry blossoms in spring and the food, especially sushi!
The cherry blossoms in spring and the food, especially sushi!	Cherry blossoms must be beautiful. Did you visit during the festival?
Cherry blossoms must be beautiful. Did you visit during the festival?	Yes, I visited during sakura season. It was magical.
Yes, I visited during sakura season. It was magical.	I can imagine! Japan sounds like a dream destination.
I can imagine! Japan sounds like a dream destination.	It really is. Do you have any dream travel destinations?
It really is. Do you have any dream travel destinations?	I’d love to visit Italy someday. The history and cuisine are fascinating.
I’d love to visit Italy someday. The history and cuisine are fascinating.	Italy is amazing. I hope you get to visit soon.
Italy is amazing. I hope you get to visit soon.	Thank you! I hope so too. Do you have any other travel plans?
Thank you! I hope so too. Do you have any other travel plans?	Not right now, but I’m thinking of planning a road trip.
Not right now, but I’m thinking of planning a road trip.	A road trip sounds like an adventure. Where are you thinking of going?
A road trip sounds like an adventure. Where are you thinking of going?	I’m considering a trip along the Pacific Coast Highway.
I’m considering a trip along the Pacific Coast Highway.	That’s a beautiful drive. You’ll see some amazing scenery.
That’s a beautiful drive. You’ll see some amazing scenery.	I’m excited about it! I’ve heard the views are breathtaking.
I’m excited about it! I’ve heard the views are breathtaking.	They definitely are. Make sure to stop at the viewpoints.
They definitely are. Make sure to stop at the viewpoints.	I will! Thanks for the advice.
I will! Thanks for the advice.	You’re welcome. I hope you have a fantastic trip.
You’re welcome. I hope you have a fantastic trip.	Thanks! I’ll share my experience with you when I get back.
Thanks! I’ll share my experience with you when I get back.	Looking forward to hearing about it!
Looking forward to hearing about it!	see you soon!
see you soon!	have a great day!
have a great day!	thanks, you too!
thanks, you too!	bye!
bye!	chat soon!
chat soon!	hello! How’s everything going today?
hello! How’s everything going today?	Everything’s good. Just catching up on some work.
Everything’s good. Just catching up on some work.	That’s good to hear. What kind of work are you doing?
That’s good to hear. What kind of work are you doing?	I’m working on a new project proposal.
I’m working on a new project proposal.	That sounds important. What’s the project about?
That sounds important. What’s the project about?	It’s about developing a new marketing strategy.
It’s about developing a new marketing strategy.	Interesting. How’s the strategy coming along?
Interesting. How’s the strategy coming along?	It’s progressing well. I’m almost done with the initial draft.
It’s progressing well. I’m almost done with the initial draft.	That’s great. When do you need to have it completed?
That’s great. When do you need to have it completed?	By the end of the week. It’s been a busy week so far.
By the end of the week. It’s been a busy week so far.	I can imagine. Do you have any plans to unwind after?
I can imagine. Do you have any plans to unwind after?	Yes, I’m thinking of watching a movie and relaxing this weekend.
Yes, I’m thinking of watching a movie and relaxing this weekend.	That sounds like a perfect way to relax. What movie do you want to watch?
That sounds like a perfect way to relax. What movie do you want to watch?	I’m considering watching a new release that just came out.
I’m considering watching a new release that just came out.	Do you remember the title of the movie?
Do you remember the title of the movie?	It’s called “The Great Adventure.”
It’s called “The Great Adventure.”	I’ve heard good things about that one. I hope you enjoy it.
I’ve heard good things about that one. I hope you enjoy it.	Thanks! I’m looking forward to it.
Thanks! I’m looking forward to it.	You’re welcome! Any other plans for the weekend?
You’re welcome! Any other plans for the weekend?	Not really, just taking it easy and catching up on some rest.
Not really, just taking it easy and catching up on some rest.	Sounds like a well-deserved break. Rest is important.
Sounds like a well-deserved break. Rest is important.	Absolutely. What about you? Any plans for the weekend?
Absolutely. What about you? Any plans for the weekend?	I’m going to visit some friends and maybe have a barbecue.
I’m going to visit some friends and maybe have a barbecue.	That sounds like a lot of fun. Enjoy your time with friends!
That sounds like a lot of fun. Enjoy your time with friends!	Thanks! I’m sure it will be a great time.
Thanks! I’m sure it will be a great time.	Looking forward to hearing about it!
Looking forward to hearing about it!	see you soon!
see you soon!	have a great day!
have a great day!	thanks, you too!
thanks, you too!	bye!
bye!	chat soon!
chat soon!	hello! What’s new with you today?
hello! What’s new with you today?	Not much, just finishing up a few tasks.
Not much, just finishing up a few tasks.	That’s good. What tasks are you working on?
That’s good. What tasks are you working on?	I’m finalizing a report for a client.
I’m finalizing a report for a client.	That sounds important. When is the report due?
That sounds important. When is the report due?	It’s due by the end of the day. I’m almost done.
It’s due by the end of the day. I’m almost done.	Great! I’m sure it will be well received.
Great! I’m sure it will be well received.	Thanks! I hope so.
Thanks! I hope so.	What are your plans for the rest of the day?
What are your plans for the rest of the day?	After finishing the report, I’m planning to go for a walk.
After finishing the report, I’m planning to go for a walk.	That sounds like a nice way to unwind.
That sounds like a nice way to unwind.	Yes, it helps me clear my mind after a busy day.
Yes, it helps me clear my mind after a busy day.	Do you have any favorite walking spots?
Do you have any favorite walking spots?	I enjoy walking in the park near my house.
I enjoy walking in the park near my house.	That’s a lovely spot. Do you go there often?
That’s a lovely spot. Do you go there often?	Yes, I try to go there a few times a week.
Yes, I try to go there a few times a week.	That’s great. Fresh air and nature are always refreshing.
That’s great. Fresh air and nature are always refreshing.	Absolutely. Do you like to exercise in other ways?
Absolutely. Do you like to exercise in other ways?	Yes, I also enjoy cycling and yoga.
Yes, I also enjoy cycling and yoga.	That’s a good mix of activities. How long have you been doing yoga?
That’s a good mix of activities. How long have you been doing yoga?	I’ve been practicing yoga for about two years now.
I’ve been practicing yoga for about two years now.	That’s impressive. How has it benefited you?
That’s impressive. How has it benefited you?	It’s improved my flexibility and reduced stress.
It’s improved my flexibility and reduced stress.	That’s wonderful. Yoga can have so many positive effects.
That’s wonderful. Yoga can have so many positive effects.	Yes, it really does. Do you practice any other forms of exercise?
Yes, it really does. Do you practice any other forms of exercise?	I also like to swim and do strength training.
I also like to swim and do strength training.	That’s a great combination. Swimming is excellent for full-body fitness.
That’s a great combination. Swimming is excellent for full-body fitness.	Yes, it’s a fantastic workout. Do you enjoy swimming?
Yes, it’s a fantastic workout. Do you enjoy swimming?	Yes, I find it very relaxing and a good workout.
Yes, I find it very relaxing and a good workout.	That’s great. Do you have a favorite swimming spot?
That’s great. Do you have a favorite swimming spot?	I usually swim at the local community pool.
I usually swim at the local community pool.	That’s convenient. Pools are great for year-round swimming.
That’s convenient. Pools are great for year-round swimming.	Yes, they are. It’s nice to have a place to swim even in winter.
Yes, they are. It’s nice to have a place to swim even in winter.	Absolutely. Do you have any upcoming plans or events?
Absolutely. Do you have any upcoming plans or events?	Not at the moment, just focusing on work and fitness.
Not at the moment, just focusing on work and fitness.	That sounds like a good balance. I hope everything goes smoothly.
That sounds like a good balance. I hope everything goes smoothly.	Thank you! I appreciate that.
Thank you! I appreciate that.	You’re welcome. Have a great day!
You’re welcome. Have a great day!	thanks, you too!
thanks, you too!	bye!
bye!	chat soon!
chat soon!	hello! How’s your week going?
hello! How’s your week going?	It’s going well, thanks. How about yours?
It’s going well, thanks. How about yours?	My week has been busy but productive.
My week has been busy but productive.	That’s good to hear. What have you been working on?
That’s good to hear. What have you been working on?	I’ve been working on a few new projects at work.
I’ve been working on a few new projects at work.	That sounds interesting. What kind of projects?
That sounds interesting. What kind of projects?	One is a marketing campaign, and another is a product launch.
One is a marketing campaign, and another is a product launch.	Those both sound significant. How are they progressing?
Those both sound significant. How are they progressing?	They’re going well. The campaign is almost ready to launch.
They’re going well. The campaign is almost ready to launch.	That’s exciting! What’s the focus of the campaign?
That’s exciting! What’s the focus of the campaign?	It’s focused on promoting a new line of eco-friendly products.
It’s focused on promoting a new line of eco-friendly products.	That’s a great initiative. I’m sure it will be successful.
That’s a great initiative. I’m sure it will be successful.	Thank you! I hope so too.
Thank you! I hope so too.	What about you? Any exciting projects or plans?
What about you? Any exciting projects or plans?	I’m working on a personal project involving graphic design.
I’m working on a personal project involving graphic design.	That sounds creative! What’s the project about?
That sounds creative! What’s the project about?	I’m designing a new logo for a local business.
I’m designing a new logo for a local business.	That’s great. Logos are so important for brand identity.
That’s great. Logos are so important for brand identity.	Yes, they really are. I’m enjoying the creative process.
Yes, they really are. I’m enjoying the creative process.	That’s wonderful. Do you have any favorite design tools?
That’s wonderful. Do you have any favorite design tools?	I mostly use Adobe Illustrator and Photoshop.
I mostly use Adobe Illustrator and Photoshop.	Those are excellent tools. Do you have any design inspirations?
Those are excellent tools. Do you have any design inspirations?	I draw inspiration from modern design trends and nature.
I draw inspiration from modern design trends and nature.	Nature is a great source of inspiration. What’s your favorite trend?
Nature is a great source of inspiration. What’s your favorite trend?	I’m really into minimalist design right now.
I’m really into minimalist design right now.	Minimalist designs are so clean and effective.
Minimalist designs are so clean and effective.	Yes, they are. They can make a big impact with simplicity.
Yes, they are. They can make a big impact with simplicity.	Absolutely. Do you work on any other creative projects?
Absolutely. Do you work on any other creative projects?	I also enjoy writing short stories in my free time.
I also enjoy writing short stories in my free time.	That’s awesome. Writing is a great way to express creativity.
That’s awesome. Writing is a great way to express creativity.	Yes, it is. Do you have any favorite genres to write?
Yes, it is. Do you have any favorite genres to write?	I enjoy writing science fiction and fantasy.
I enjoy writing science fiction and fantasy.	Those genres are so imaginative. Do you have a favorite story you’ve written?
Those genres are so imaginative. Do you have a favorite story you’ve written?	Yes, I’m particularly proud of a short story about a futuristic society.
Yes, I’m particularly proud of a short story about a futuristic society.	That sounds intriguing. What’s it about?
That sounds intriguing. What’s it about?	It’s about a society where technology and nature coexist harmoniously.
It’s about a society where technology and nature coexist harmoniously.	That’s a fascinating concept. How did you come up with it?
That’s a fascinating concept. How did you come up with it?	I was inspired by the idea of achieving balance between modern advancements and environmental preservation.
I was inspired by the idea of achieving balance between modern advancements and environmental preservation.	That’s a thoughtful theme. I’m sure your readers will appreciate it.
That’s a thoughtful theme. I’m sure your readers will appreciate it.	Thank you! I hope so.
Thank you! I hope so.	You’re welcome! Keep up the great work!
You’re welcome! Keep up the great work!	thanks, you too!
thanks, you too!	bye!
bye!	chat soon!</RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE>
Walt Whitman has somewhere a fine and just distinction between “loving
by allowance” and “loving with personal love.” This distinction applies
to books as well as to men and women; and in the case of the not very
numerous authors who are the objects of the personal affection, it
brings a curious consequence with it. There is much more difference as
to their best work than in the case of those others who are loved “by
allowance” by convention, and because it is felt to be the right and
proper thing to love them. And in the sect--fairly large and yet
unusually choice--of Austenians or Janites, there would probably be
found partisans of the claim to primacy of almost every one of the
novels. To some the delightful freshness and humour of_ Northanger
Abbey, _its completeness, finish, and_ entrain, _obscure the undoubted
critical facts that its scale is small, and its scheme, after all, that
of burlesque or parody, a kind in which the first rank is reached with
difficulty._ Persuasion, _relatively faint in tone, and not enthralling
in interest, has devotees who exalt above all the others its exquisite
delicacy and keeping. The catastrophe of_ Mansfield Park _is admittedly
theatrical, the hero and heroine are insipid, and the author has almost
wickedly destroyed all romantic interest by expressly admitting that
Edmund only took Fanny because Mary shocked him, and that Fanny might
very likely have taken Crawford if he had been a little more assiduous;
yet the matchless rehearsal-scenes and the characters of Mrs. Norris and
others have secured, I believe, a considerable party for it._ Sense and
Sensibility _has perhaps the fewest out-and-out admirers; but it does
not want them._ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> I suppose, however, that the majority of at least competent votes
would, all things considered, be divided between_ Emma _and the present
book; and perhaps the vulgar verdict (if indeed a fondness for Miss
Austen be not of itself a patent of exemption from any possible charge
of vulgarity) would go for_ Emma. _It is the larger, the more varied, the
more popular; the author had by the time of its composition seen rather
more of the world, and had improved her general, though not her most
peculiar and characteristic dialogue; such figures as Miss Bates, as the
Eltons, cannot but unite the suffrages of everybody. On the other hand,
I, for my part, declare for_ Pride and Prejudice _unhesitatingly. It
seems to me the most perfect, the most characteristic, the most
eminently quintessential of its author’s works; and for this contention
in such narrow space as is permitted to me, I propose here to show
cause._ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> _In the first place, the book (it may be barely necessary to remind the
reader) was in its first shape written very early, somewhere about 1796,
when Miss Austen was barely twenty-one; though it was revised and
finished at Chawton some fifteen years later, and was not published till
1813, only four years before her death. I do not know whether, in this
combination of the fresh and vigorous projection of youth, and the
critical revision of middle life, there may be traced the distinct
superiority in point of construction, which, as it seems to me, it
possesses over all the others. The plot, though not elaborate, is almost
regular enough for Fielding; hardly a character, hardly an incident
could be retrenched without loss to the story. The elopement of Lydia
and Wickham is not, like that of Crawford and Mrs. Rushworth, a_ coup de
théâtre; _it connects itself in the strictest way with the course of the
story earlier, and brings about the denouement with complete propriety.
All the minor passages--the loves of Jane and Bingley, the advent of Mr.
Collins, the visit to Hunsford, the Derbyshire tour--fit in after the
same unostentatious, but masterly fashion. There is no attempt at the
hide-and-seek, in-and-out business, which in the transactions between
Frank Churchill and Jane Fairfax contributes no doubt a good deal to the
intrigue of_ Emma, _but contributes it in a fashion which I do not think
the best feature of that otherwise admirable book. Although Miss Austen
always liked something of the misunderstanding kind, which afforded her
opportunities for the display of the peculiar and incomparable talent to
be noticed presently, she has been satisfied here with the perfectly
natural occasions provided by the false account of Darcy’s conduct given
by Wickham, and by the awkwardness (arising with equal naturalness) from
the gradual transformation of Elizabeth’s own feelings from positive
aversion to actual love. I do not know whether the all-grasping hand of
the playwright has ever been laid upon_ Pride and Prejudice; _and I dare
say that, if it were, the situations would prove not startling or
garish enough for the footlights, the character-scheme too subtle and
delicate for pit and gallery. But if the attempt were made, it would
certainly not be hampered by any of those loosenesses of construction,
which, sometimes disguised by the conveniences of which the novelist can
avail himself, appear at once on the stage._ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> _I think, however, though the thought will doubtless seem heretical to
more than one school of critics, that construction is not the highest
merit, the choicest gift, of the novelist. It sets off his other gifts
and graces most advantageously to the critical eye; and the want of it
will sometimes mar those graces--appreciably, though not quite
consciously--to eyes by no means ultra-critical. But a very badly-built
novel which excelled in pathetic or humorous character, or which
displayed consummate command of dialogue--perhaps the rarest of all
faculties--would be an infinitely better thing than a faultless plot
acted and told by puppets with pebbles in their mouths. And despite the
ability which Miss Austen has shown in working out the story, I for one
should put_ Pride and Prejudice _far lower if it did not contain what
seem to me the very masterpieces of Miss Austen’s humour and of her
faculty of character-creation--masterpieces who may indeed admit John
Thorpe, the Eltons, Mrs. Norris, and one or two others to their company,
but who, in one instance certainly, and perhaps in others, are still
superior to them._ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> _The characteristics of Miss Austen’s humour are so subtle and delicate
that they are, perhaps, at all times easier to apprehend than to
express, and at any particular time likely to be differently
apprehended by different persons. To me this humour seems to possess a
greater affinity, on the whole, to that of Addison than to any other of
the numerous species of this great British genus. The differences of
scheme, of time, of subject, of literary convention, are, of course,
obvious enough; the difference of sex does not, perhaps, count for much,
for there was a distinctly feminine element in “Mr. Spectator,” and in
Jane Austen’s genius there was, though nothing mannish, much that was
masculine. But the likeness of quality consists in a great number of
common subdivisions of quality--demureness, extreme minuteness of touch,
avoidance of loud tones and glaring effects. Also there is in both a
certain not inhuman or unamiable cruelty. It is the custom with those
who judge grossly to contrast the good nature of Addison with the
savagery of Swift, the mildness of Miss Austen with the boisterousness
of Fielding and Smollett, even with the ferocious practical jokes that
her immediate predecessor, Miss Burney, allowed without very much
protest. Yet, both in Mr. Addison and in Miss Austen there is, though a
restrained and well-mannered, an insatiable and ruthless delight in
roasting and cutting up a fool. A man in the early eighteenth century,
of course, could push this taste further than a lady in the early
nineteenth; and no doubt Miss Austen’s principles, as well as her heart,
would have shrunk from such things as the letter from the unfortunate
husband in the_ Spectator, _who describes, with all the gusto and all the
innocence in the world, how his wife and his friend induce him to play
at blind-man’s-buff. But another_ Spectator _letter--that of the damsel
of fourteen who wishes to marry Mr. Shapely, and assures her selected
Mentor that “he admires your_ Spectators _mightily”--might have been
written by a rather more ladylike and intelligent Lydia Bennet in the
days of Lydia’s great-grandmother; while, on the other hand, some (I
think unreasonably) have found “cynicism” in touches of Miss Austen’s
own, such as her satire of Mrs. Musgrove’s self-deceiving regrets over
her son. But this word “cynical” is one of the most misused in the
English language, especially when, by a glaring and gratuitous
falsification of its original sense, it is applied, not to rough and
snarling invective, but to gentle and oblique satire. If cynicism means
the perception of “the other side,” the sense of “the accepted hells
beneath,” the consciousness that motives are nearly always mixed, and
that to seem is not identical with to be--if this be cynicism, then
every man and woman who is not a fool, who does not care to live in a
fool’s paradise, who has knowledge of nature and the world and life, is
a cynic. And in that sense Miss Austen certainly was one. She may even
have been one in the further sense that, like her own Mr. Bennet, she
took an epicurean delight in dissecting, in displaying, in setting at
work her fools and her mean persons. I think she did take this delight,
and I do not think at all the worse of her for it as a woman, while she
was immensely the better for it as an artist._ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> _In respect of her art generally, Mr. Goldwin Smith has truly observed
that “metaphor has been exhausted in depicting the perfection of it,
combined with the narrowness of her field;” and he has justly added that
we need not go beyond her own comparison to the art of a miniature
painter. To make this latter observation quite exact we must not use the
term miniature in its restricted sense, and must think rather of Memling
at one end of the history of painting and Meissonier at the other, than
of Cosway or any of his kind. And I am not so certain that I should
myself use the word “narrow” in connection with her. If her world is a
microcosm, the cosmic quality of it is at least as eminent as the
littleness. She does not touch what she did not feel herself called to
paint; I am not so sure that she could not have painted what she did not
feel herself called to touch. It is at least remarkable that in two very
short periods of writing--one of about three years, and another of not
much more than five--she executed six capital works, and has not left a
single failure. It is possible that the romantic paste in her
composition was defective: we must always remember that hardly
anybody born in her decade--that of the eighteenth-century
seventies--independently exhibited the full romantic quality. Even Scott
required hill and mountain and ballad, even Coleridge metaphysics and
German to enable them to chip the classical shell. Miss Austen was an
English girl, brought up in a country retirement, at the time when
ladies went back into the house if there was a white frost which might
pierce their kid shoes, when a sudden cold was the subject of the
gravest fears, when their studies, their ways, their conduct were
subject to all those fantastic limits and restrictions against which
Mary Wollstonecraft protested with better general sense than particular
taste or judgment. Miss Austen, too, drew back when the white frost
touched her shoes; but I think she would have made a pretty good journey
even in a black one._ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> _For if her knowledge was not very extended, she knew two things which
only genius knows. The one was humanity, and the other was art. On the
first head she could not make a mistake; her men, though limited, are
true, and her women are, in the old sense, “absolute.” As to art, if she
has never tried idealism, her realism is real to a degree which makes
the false realism of our own day look merely dead-alive. Take almost any
Frenchman, except the late M. de Maupassant, and watch him laboriously
piling up strokes in the hope of giving a complete impression. You get
none; you are lucky if, discarding two-thirds of what he gives, you can
shape a real impression out of the rest. But with Miss Austen the
myriad, trivial, unforced strokes build up the picture like magic.
Nothing is false; nothing is superfluous. When (to take the present book
only) Mr. Collins changed his mind from Jane to Elizabeth “while Mrs.
Bennet was stirring the fire” (and we know_ how _Mrs. Bennet would have
stirred the fire), when Mr. Darcy “brought his coffee-cup back_
himself,” _the touch in each case is like that of Swift--“taller by the
breadth of my nail”--which impressed the half-reluctant Thackeray with
just and outspoken admiration. Indeed, fantastic as it may seem, I
should put Miss Austen as near to Swift in some ways, as I have put her
to Addison in others._ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> _This Swiftian quality appears in the present novel as it appears
nowhere else in the character of the immortal, the ineffable Mr.
Collins. Mr. Collins is really_ great; _far greater than anything Addison
ever did, almost great enough for Fielding or for Swift himself. It has
been said that no one ever was like him. But in the first place,_ he
_was like him; he is there--alive, imperishable, more real than hundreds
of prime ministers and archbishops, of “metals, semi-metals, and
distinguished philosophers.” In the second place, it is rash, I think,
to conclude that an actual Mr. Collins was impossible or non-existent at
the end of the eighteenth century. It is very interesting that we
possess, in this same gallery, what may be called a spoiled first
draught, or an unsuccessful study of him, in John Dashwood. The
formality, the under-breeding, the meanness, are there; but the portrait
is only half alive, and is felt to be even a little unnatural. Mr.
Collins is perfectly natural, and perfectly alive. In fact, for all the
“miniature,” there is something gigantic in the way in which a certain
side, and more than one, of humanity, and especially eighteenth-century
humanity, its Philistinism, its well-meaning but hide-bound morality,
its formal pettiness, its grovelling respect for rank, its materialism,
its selfishness, receives exhibition. I will not admit that one speech
or one action of this inestimable man is incapable of being reconciled
with reality, and I should not wonder if many of these words and actions
are historically true._ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> _But the greatness of Mr. Collins could not have been so satisfactorily
exhibited if his creatress had not adjusted so artfully to him the
figures of Mr. Bennet and of Lady Catherine de Bourgh. The latter, like
Mr. Collins himself, has been charged with exaggeration. There is,
perhaps, a very faint shade of colour for the charge; but it seems to me
very faint indeed. Even now I do not think that it would be impossible
to find persons, especially female persons, not necessarily of noble
birth, as overbearing, as self-centred, as neglectful of good manners,
as Lady Catherine. A hundred years ago, an earl’s daughter, the Lady
Powerful (if not exactly Bountiful) of an out-of-the-way country parish,
rich, long out of marital authority, and so forth, had opportunities of
developing these agreeable characteristics which seldom present
themselves now. As for Mr. Bennet, Miss Austen, and Mr. Darcy, and even
Miss Elizabeth herself, were, I am inclined to think, rather hard on him
for the “impropriety” of his conduct. His wife was evidently, and must
always have been, a quite irreclaimable fool; and unless he had shot her
or himself there was no way out of it for a man of sense and spirit but
the ironic. From no other point of view is he open to any reproach,
except for an excusable and not unnatural helplessness at the crisis of
the elopement, and his utterances are the most acutely delightful in the
consciously humorous kind--in the kind that we laugh with, not at--that
even Miss Austen has put into the mouth of any of her characters. It is
difficult to know whether he is most agreeable when talking to his wife,
or when putting Mr. Collins through his paces; but the general sense of
the world has probably been right in preferring to the first rank his
consolation to the former when she maunders over the entail, “My dear,
do not give way to such gloomy thoughts. Let us hope for better things.
Let us flatter ourselves that_ I _may be the survivor;” and his inquiry
to his colossal cousin as to the compliments which Mr. Collins has just
related as made by himself to Lady Catherine, “May I ask whether these
pleasing attentions proceed from the impulse of the moment, or are the
result of previous study?” These are the things which give Miss Austen’s
readers the pleasant shocks, the delightful thrills, which are felt by
the readers of Swift, of Fielding, and we may here add, of Thackeray, as
they are felt by the readers of no other English author of fiction
outside of these four._ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> _The goodness of the minor characters in_ Pride and Prejudice _has been
already alluded to, and it makes a detailed dwelling on their beauties
difficult in any space, and impossible in this. Mrs. Bennet we have
glanced at, and it is not easy to say whether she is more exquisitely
amusing or more horribly true. Much the same may be said of Kitty and
Lydia; but it is not every author, even of genius, who would have
differentiated with such unerring skill the effects of folly and
vulgarity of intellect and disposition working upon the common
weaknesses of woman at such different ages. With Mary, Miss Austen has
taken rather less pains, though she has been even more unkind to her;
not merely in the text, but, as we learn from those interesting
traditional appendices which Mr. Austen Leigh has given us, in dooming
her privately to marry “one of Mr. Philips’s clerks.” The habits of
first copying and then retailing moral sentiments, of playing and
singing too long in public, are, no doubt, grievous and criminal; but
perhaps poor Mary was rather the scapegoat of the sins of blue stockings
in that Fordyce-belectured generation. It is at any rate difficult not
to extend to her a share of the respect and affection (affection and
respect of a peculiar kind; doubtless), with which one regards Mr.
Collins, when she draws the moral of Lydia’s fall. I sometimes wish
that the exigencies of the story had permitted Miss Austen to unite
these personages, and thus at once achieve a notable mating and soothe
poor Mrs. Bennet’s anguish over the entail._ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> _The Bingleys and the Gardiners and the Lucases, Miss Darcy and Miss de
Bourgh, Jane, Wickham, and the rest, must pass without special comment,
further than the remark that Charlotte Lucas (her egregious papa, though
delightful, is just a little on the thither side of the line between
comedy and farce) is a wonderfully clever study in drab of one kind, and
that Wickham (though something of Miss Austen’s hesitation of touch in
dealing with young men appears) is a not much less notable sketch in
drab of another. Only genius could have made Charlotte what she is, yet
not disagreeable; Wickham what he is, without investing him either with
a cheap Don Juanish attractiveness or a disgusting rascality. But the
hero and the heroine are not tints to be dismissed._ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> _Darcy has always seemed to me by far the best and most interesting of
Miss Austen’s heroes; the only possible competitor being Henry Tilney,
whose part is so slight and simple that it hardly enters into
comparison. It has sometimes, I believe, been urged that his pride is
unnatural at first in its expression and later in its yielding, while
his falling in love at all is not extremely probable. Here again I
cannot go with the objectors. Darcy’s own account of the way in which
his pride had been pampered, is perfectly rational and sufficient; and
nothing could be, psychologically speaking, a_ causa verior _for its
sudden restoration to healthy conditions than the shock of Elizabeth’s
scornful refusal acting on a nature_ ex hypothesi _generous. Nothing in
even our author is finer and more delicately touched than the change of
his demeanour at the sudden meeting in the grounds of Pemberley. Had he
been a bad prig or a bad coxcomb, he might have been still smarting
under his rejection, or suspicious that the girl had come
husband-hunting. His being neither is exactly consistent with the
probable feelings of a man spoilt in the common sense, but not really
injured in disposition, and thoroughly in love. As for his being in
love, Elizabeth has given as just an exposition of the causes of that
phenomenon as Darcy has of the conditions of his unregenerate state,
only she has of course not counted in what was due to her own personal
charm._ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> _The secret of that charm many men and not a few women, from Miss Austen
herself downwards, have felt, and like most charms it is a thing rather
to be felt than to be explained. Elizabeth of course belongs to the_
allegro _or_ allegra _division of the army of Venus. Miss Austen was
always provokingly chary of description in regard to her beauties; and
except the fine eyes, and a hint or two that she had at any rate
sometimes a bright complexion, and was not very tall, we hear nothing
about her looks. But her chief difference from other heroines of the
lively type seems to lie first in her being distinctly clever--almost
strong-minded, in the better sense of that objectionable word--and
secondly in her being entirely destitute of ill-nature for all her
propensity to tease and the sharpness of her tongue. Elizabeth can give
at least as good as she gets when she is attacked; but she never
“scratches,” and she never attacks first. Some of the merest
obsoletenesses of phrase and manner give one or two of her early
speeches a slight pertness, but that is nothing, and when she comes to
serious business, as in the great proposal scene with Darcy (which is,
as it should be, the climax of the interest of the book), and in the
final ladies’ battle with Lady Catherine, she is unexceptionable. Then
too she is a perfectly natural girl. She does not disguise from herself
or anybody that she resents Darcy’s first ill-mannered personality with
as personal a feeling. (By the way, the reproach that the ill-manners of
this speech are overdone is certainly unjust; for things of the same
kind, expressed no doubt less stiltedly but more coarsely, might have
been heard in more than one ball-room during this very year from persons
who ought to have been no worse bred than Darcy.) And she lets the
injury done to Jane and the contempt shown to the rest of her family
aggravate this resentment in the healthiest way in the world._ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> _Still, all this does not explain her charm, which, taking beauty as a
common form of all heroines, may perhaps consist in the addition to her
playfulness, her wit, her affectionate and natural disposition, of a
certain fearlessness very uncommon in heroines of her type and age.
Nearly all of them would have been in speechless awe of the magnificent
Darcy; nearly all of them would have palpitated and fluttered at the
idea of proposals, even naughty ones, from the fascinating Wickham.
Elizabeth, with nothing offensive, nothing_ viraginous, _nothing of the
“New Woman” about her, has by nature what the best modern (not “new”)
women have by education and experience, a perfect freedom from the idea
that all men may bully her if they choose, and that most will away with
her if they can. Though not in the least “impudent and mannish grown,”
she has no mere sensibility, no nasty niceness about her. The form of
passion common and likely to seem natural in Miss Austen’s day was so
invariably connected with the display of one or the other, or both of
these qualities, that she has not made Elizabeth outwardly passionate.
But I, at least, have not the slightest doubt that she would have
married Darcy just as willingly without Pemberley as with it, and
anybody who can read between lines will not find the lovers’
conversations in the final chapters so frigid as they might have looked
to the Della Cruscans of their own day, and perhaps do look to the Della
Cruscans of this._ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> _And, after all, what is the good of seeking for the reason of
charm?--it is there. There were better sense in the sad mechanic
exercise of determining the reason of its absence where it is not. In
the novels of the last hundred years there are vast numbers of young
ladies with whom it might be a pleasure to fall in love; there are at
least five with whom, as it seems to me, no man of taste and spirit can
help doing so. Their names are, in chronological order, Elizabeth
Bennet, Diana Vernon, Argemone Lavington, Beatrix Esmond, and Barbara
Grant. I should have been most in love with Beatrix and Argemone; I
should, I think, for mere occasional companionship, have preferred Diana
and Barbara. But to live with and to marry, I do not know that any one
of the four can come into competition with Elizabeth._ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession
of a good fortune must be in want of a wife. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> However little known the feelings or views of such a man may be on his
first entering a neighbourhood, this truth is so well fixed in the minds
of the surrounding families, that he is considered as the rightful
property of some one or other of their daughters. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My dear Mr. Bennet,” said his lady to him one day, “have you heard that
Netherfield Park is let at last?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Why, my dear, you must know, Mrs. Long says that Netherfield is taken
by a young man of large fortune from the north of England; that he came
down on Monday in a chaise and four to see the place, and was so much
delighted with it that he agreed with Mr. Morris immediately; that he is
to take possession before Michaelmas, and some of his servants are to be
in the house by the end of next week.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, single, my dear, to be sure! A single man of large fortune; four or
five thousand a year. What a fine thing for our girls!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My dear Mr. Bennet,” replied his wife, “how can you be so tiresome? You
must know that I am thinking of his marrying one of them.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Design? Nonsense, how can you talk so! But it is very likely that he
_may_ fall in love with one of them, and therefore you must visit him as
soon as he comes.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I see no occasion for that. You and the girls may go--or you may send
them by themselves, which perhaps will be still better; for as you are
as handsome as any of them, Mr. Bingley might like you the best of the
party.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My dear, you flatter me. I certainly _have_ had my share of beauty, but
I do not pretend to be anything extraordinary now. When a woman has five
grown-up daughters, she ought to give over thinking of her own beauty.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But consider your daughters. Only think what an establishment it would
be for one of them. Sir William and Lady Lucas are determined to go,
merely on that account; for in general, you know, they visit no new
comers. Indeed you must go, for it will be impossible for _us_ to visit
him, if you do not.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You are over scrupulous, surely. I dare say Mr. Bingley will be very
glad to see you; and I will send a few lines by you to assure him of my
hearty consent to his marrying whichever he chooses of the girls--though
I must throw in a good word for my little Lizzy.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I desire you will do no such thing. Lizzy is not a bit better than the
others: and I am sure she is not half so handsome as Jane, nor half so
good-humoured as Lydia. But you are always giving _her_ the preference.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “They have none of them much to recommend them,” replied he: “they are
all silly and ignorant like other girls; but Lizzy has something more of
quickness than her sisters.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Mr. Bennet, how can you abuse your own children in such a way? You take
delight in vexing me. You have no compassion on my poor nerves.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You mistake me, my dear. I have a high respect for your nerves. They
are my old friends. I have heard you mention them with consideration
these twenty years at least.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But I hope you will get over it, and live to see many young men of four
thousand a year come into the neighbourhood.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Bennet was so odd a mixture of quick parts, sarcastic humour,
reserve, and caprice, that the experience of three-and-twenty years had
been insufficient to make his wife understand his character. _Her_ mind
was less difficult to develope. She was a woman of mean understanding,
little information, and uncertain temper. When she was discontented, she
fancied herself nervous. The business of her life was to get her
daughters married: its solace was visiting and news. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Bennet was among the earliest of those who waited on Mr. Bingley. He
had always intended to visit him, though to the last always assuring his
wife that he should not go; and till the evening after the visit was
paid she had no knowledge of it. It was then disclosed in the following
manner. Observing his second daughter employed in trimming a hat, he
suddenly addressed her with,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “We are not in a way to know _what_ Mr. Bingley likes,” said her mother,
resentfully, “since we are not to visit.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But you forget, mamma,” said Elizabeth, “that we shall meet him at the
assemblies, and that Mrs. Long has promised to introduce him.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I do not believe Mrs. Long will do any such thing. She has two nieces
of her own. She is a selfish, hypocritical woman, and I have no opinion
of her.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No more have I,” said Mr. Bennet; “and I am glad to find that you do
not depend on her serving you.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Ay, so it is,” cried her mother, “and Mrs. Long does not come back till
the day before; so, it will be impossible for her to introduce him, for
she will not know him herself.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I honour your circumspection. A fortnight’s acquaintance is certainly
very little. One cannot know what a man really is by the end of a
fortnight. But if _we_ do not venture, somebody else will; and after
all, Mrs. Long and her nieces must stand their chance; and, therefore,
as she will think it an act of kindness, if you decline the office, I
will take it on myself.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “What can be the meaning of that emphatic exclamation?” cried he. “Do
you consider the forms of introduction, and the stress that is laid on
them, as nonsense? I cannot quite agree with you _there_. What say you,
Mary? For you are a young lady of deep reflection, I know, and read
great books, and make extracts.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am sorry to hear _that_; but why did you not tell me so before? If I
had known as much this morning, I certainly would not have called on
him. It is very unlucky; but as I have actually paid the visit, we
cannot escape the acquaintance now.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The astonishment of the ladies was just what he wished--that of Mrs.
Bennet perhaps surpassing the rest; though when the first tumult of joy
was over, she began to declare that it was what she had expected all the
while. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “How good it was in you, my dear Mr. Bennet! But I knew I should
persuade you at last. I was sure you loved your girls too well to
neglect such an acquaintance. Well, how pleased I am! And it is such a
good joke, too, that you should have gone this morning, and never said a
word about it till now.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Now, Kitty, you may cough as much as you choose,” said Mr. Bennet; and,
as he spoke, he left the room, fatigued with the raptures of his wife. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “What an excellent father you have, girls,” said she, when the door was
shut. “I do not know how you will ever make him amends for his kindness;
or me either, for that matter. At our time of life, it is not so
pleasant, I can tell you, to be making new acquaintances every day; but
for your sakes we would do anything. Lydia, my love, though you _are_
the youngest, I dare say Mr. Bingley will dance with you at the next
ball.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The rest of the evening was spent in conjecturing how soon he would
return Mr. Bennet’s visit, and determining when they should ask him to
dinner. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Not all that Mrs. Bennet, however, with the assistance of her five
daughters, could ask on the subject, was sufficient to draw from her
husband any satisfactory description of Mr. Bingley. They attacked him
in various ways, with barefaced questions, ingenious suppositions, and
distant surmises; but he eluded the skill of them all; and they were at
last obliged to accept the second-hand intelligence of their neighbour,
Lady Lucas. Her report was highly favourable. Sir William had been
delighted with him. He was quite young, wonderfully handsome, extremely
agreeable, and, to crown the whole, he meant to be at the next assembly
with a large party. Nothing could be more delightful! To be fond of
dancing was a certain step towards falling in love; and very lively
hopes of Mr. Bingley’s heart were entertained. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If I can but see one of my daughters happily settled at Netherfield,”
said Mrs. Bennet to her husband, “and all the others equally well
married, I shall have nothing to wish for.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In a few days Mr. Bingley returned Mr. Bennet’s visit, and sat about ten
minutes with him in his library. He had entertained hopes of being
admitted to a sight of the young ladies, of whose beauty he had heard
much; but he saw only the father. The ladies were somewhat more
fortunate, for they had the advantage of ascertaining, from an upper
window, that he wore a blue coat and rode a black horse. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> An invitation to dinner was soon afterwards despatched; and already had
Mrs. Bennet planned the courses that were to do credit to her
housekeeping, when an answer arrived which deferred it all. Mr. Bingley
was obliged to be in town the following day, and consequently unable to
accept the honour of their invitation, etc. Mrs. Bennet was quite
disconcerted. She could not imagine what business he could have in town
so soon after his arrival in Hertfordshire; and she began to fear that
he might always be flying about from one place to another, and never
settled at Netherfield as he ought to be. Lady Lucas quieted her fears a
little by starting the idea of his </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> being gone to London only to get a large party for the ball; and a
report soon followed that Mr. Bingley was to bring twelve ladies and
seven gentlemen with him to the assembly. The girls grieved over such a
number of ladies; but were comforted the day before the ball by hearing
that, instead of twelve, he had brought only six with him from London,
his five sisters and a cousin. And when the party entered the
assembly-room, it consisted of only five altogether: Mr. Bingley, his
two sisters, the husband of the eldest, and another young man. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Bingley was good-looking and gentlemanlike: he had a pleasant
countenance, and easy, unaffected manners. His sisters were fine women,
with an air of decided fashion. His brother-in-law, Mr. Hurst, merely
looked the gentleman; but his friend Mr. Darcy soon drew the attention
of the room by his fine, tall person, handsome features, noble mien, and
the report, which was in general circulation within five minutes after
his entrance, of his having ten thousand a year. The gentlemen
pronounced him to be a fine figure of a man, the ladies declared he was
much handsomer than Mr. Bingley, and he was looked at with great
admiration for about half the evening, till his manners gave a disgust
which turned the tide of his popularity; for he was discovered to be
proud, to be above his company, and above being pleased; and not all his
large estate in Derbyshire could save him from having a most forbidding,
disagreeable countenance, and being unworthy to be compared with his
friend. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Bingley had soon made himself acquainted with all the principal
people in the room: he was lively and unreserved, danced every dance,
was angry that the ball closed so early, and talked of giving one
himself at Netherfield. Such amiable qualities must speak for
themselves. What a contrast between him and his friend! Mr. Darcy danced
only once with Mrs. Hurst and once with Miss Bingley, declined being
introduced to any other lady, and spent the rest of the evening in
walking about the room, speaking occasionally to one of his own party.
His character was decided. He was the proudest, most disagreeable man in
the world, and everybody hoped that he would never come there again.
Amongst the most violent against him was Mrs. Bennet, whose dislike of
his general behaviour was sharpened into particular resentment by his
having slighted one of her daughters. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth Bennet had been obliged, by the scarcity of gentlemen, to sit
down for two dances; and during part of that time, Mr. Darcy had been
standing near enough for her to overhear a conversation between him and
Mr. Bingley, who came from the dance for a few minutes to press his
friend to join it. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Come, Darcy,” said he, “I must have you dance. I hate to see you
standing about by yourself in this stupid manner. You had much better
dance.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I certainly shall not. You know how I detest it, unless I am
particularly acquainted with my partner. At such an assembly as this, it
would be insupportable. Your sisters are engaged, and there is not
another woman in the room whom it would not be a punishment to me to
stand up with.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I would not be so fastidious as you are,” cried Bingley, “for a
kingdom! Upon my honour, I never met with so many pleasant girls in my
life as I have this evening; and there are several of them, you see,
uncommonly pretty.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, she is the most beautiful creature I ever beheld! But there is one
of her sisters sitting down just behind you, who is very pretty, and I
dare say very agreeable. Do let me ask my partner to introduce you.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Which do you mean?” and turning round, he looked for a moment at
Elizabeth, till, catching her eye, he withdrew his own, and coldly said,
“She is tolerable: but not handsome enough to tempt _me_; and I am in no
humour at present to give consequence to young ladies who are slighted
by other men. You had better return to your partner and enjoy her
smiles, for you are wasting your time with me.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Bingley followed his advice. Mr. Darcy walked off; and Elizabeth
remained with no very cordial feelings towards him. She told the story,
however, with great spirit among her friends; for she had a lively,
playful disposition, which delighted in anything ridiculous. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The evening altogether passed off pleasantly to the whole family. Mrs.
Bennet had seen her eldest daughter much admired by the Netherfield
party. Mr. Bingley had danced with her twice, and she had been
distinguished by his sisters. Jane was as much gratified by this as her
mother could be, though in a quieter way. Elizabeth felt Jane’s
pleasure. Mary had heard herself mentioned to Miss Bingley as the most
accomplished girl in the neighbourhood; and Catherine and Lydia had been
fortunate enough to be never without partners, which was all that they
had yet learnt to care for at a ball. They returned, therefore, in good
spirits to Longbourn, the village where they lived, and of which they
were the principal inhabitants. They found Mr. Bennet still up. With a
book, he was regardless of time; and on the present occasion he had a
good deal of curiosity as to the event of an evening which had raised
such splendid expectations. He had rather hoped that all his wife’s
views on the stranger would be disappointed; but he soon found that he
had a very different story to hear. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, my dear Mr. Bennet,” as she entered the room, “we have had a most
delightful evening, a most excellent ball. I wish you had been there.
Jane was so admired, nothing could be like it. Everybody said how well
she looked; and Mr. Bingley thought her quite beautiful, and danced with
her twice. Only think of _that_, my dear: he actually danced with her
twice; and she was the only creature in the room that he asked a second
time. First of all, he asked Miss Lucas. I was so vexed to see him stand
up with her; but, however, he did not admire her at all; indeed, nobody
can, you know; and he seemed quite struck with Jane as she was going
down the dance. So he inquired who she was, and got introduced, and
asked her for the two next. Then, the two third he danced with Miss
King, and the two fourth with Maria Lucas, and the two fifth with Jane
again, and the two sixth with Lizzy, and the _Boulanger_----” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If he had had any compassion for _me_,” cried her husband impatiently,
“he would not have danced half so much! For God’s sake, say no more of
his partners. O that he had sprained his ancle in the first dance!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, my dear,” continued Mrs. Bennet, “I am quite delighted with him. He
is so excessively handsome! and his sisters are charming women. I never
in my life saw anything more elegant than their dresses. I dare say the
lace upon Mrs. Hurst’s gown----” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Here she was interrupted again. Mr. Bennet protested against any
description of finery. She was therefore obliged to seek another branch
of the subject, and related, with much bitterness of spirit, and some
exaggeration, the shocking rudeness of Mr. Darcy. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But I can assure you,” she added, “that Lizzy does not lose much by not
suiting _his_ fancy; for he is a most disagreeable, horrid man, not at
all worth pleasing. So high and so conceited, that there was no enduring
him! He walked here, and he walked there, fancying himself so very
great! Not handsome enough to dance with! I wish you had been there, my
dear, to have given him one of your set-downs. I quite detest the man.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When Jane and Elizabeth were alone, the former, who had been cautious in
her praise of Mr. Bingley before, expressed to her sister how very much
she admired him. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He is just what a young-man ought to be,” said she, “sensible,
good-humoured, lively; and I never saw such happy manners! so much ease,
with such perfect good breeding!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He is also handsome,” replied Elizabeth, “which a young man ought
likewise to be if he possibly can. His character is thereby complete.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I was very much flattered by his asking me to dance a second time. I
did not expect such a compliment.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Did not you? _I_ did for you. But that is one great difference between
us. Compliments always take _you_ by surprise, and _me_ never. What
could be more natural than his asking you again? He could not help
seeing that you were about five times as pretty as every other woman in
the room. No thanks to his gallantry for that. Well, he certainly is
very agreeable, and I give you leave to like him. You have liked many a
stupider person.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, you are a great deal too apt, you know, to like people in general.
You never see a fault in anybody. All the world are good and agreeable
in your eyes. I never heard you speak ill of a human being in my life.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I know you do: and it is _that_ which makes the wonder. With _your_
good sense, to be so honestly blind to the follies and nonsense of
others! Affectation of candour is common enough; one meets with it
everywhere. But to be candid without ostentation or design,--to take the
good of everybody’s character and make it still better, and say nothing
of the bad,--belongs to you alone. And so, you like this man’s sisters,
too, do you? Their manners are not equal to his.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Certainly not, at first; but they are very pleasing women when you
converse with them. Miss Bingley is to live with her brother, and keep
his house; and I am much mistaken if we shall not find a very charming
neighbour in her.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth listened in silence, but was not convinced: their behaviour at
the assembly had not been calculated to please in general; and with more
quickness of observation and less pliancy of temper than her sister, and
with a judgment, too, unassailed by any attention to herself, she was
very little disposed to approve them. They were, in fact, very fine
ladies; not deficient in good-humour when they were pleased, nor in the
power of being agreeable where they chose it; but proud and conceited.
They were rather handsome; had been educated in one of the first private
seminaries in town; had a fortune of twenty thousand pounds; were in the
habit of spending more than they ought, and of associating with people
of rank; and were, therefore, in every respect entitled to think well of
themselves and meanly of others. They were of a respectable family in
the north of England; a circumstance more deeply impressed on their
memories than that their brother’s fortune and their own had been
acquired by trade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Bingley inherited property to the amount of nearly a hundred
thousand pounds from his father, who had intended to purchase an estate,
but did not live to do it. Mr. Bingley intended it likewise, and
sometimes made choice of his county; but, as he was now provided with a
good house and the liberty of a manor, it was doubtful to many of those
who best knew the easiness of his temper, whether he might not spend the
remainder of his days at Netherfield, and leave the next generation to
purchase. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> His sisters were very anxious for his having an estate of his own; but
though he was now established only as a tenant, Miss Bingley was by no
means unwilling to preside at his table; nor was Mrs. Hurst, who had
married a man of more fashion than fortune, less disposed to consider
his house as her home when it suited her. Mr. Bingley had not been of
age two years when he was tempted, by an accidental recommendation, to
look at Netherfield House. He did look at it, and into it, for half an
hour; was pleased with the situation and the principal rooms, satisfied
with what the owner said in its praise, and took it immediately. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Between him and Darcy there was a very steady friendship, in spite of a
great opposition of character. Bingley was endeared to Darcy by the
easiness, openness, and ductility of his temper, though no disposition
could offer a greater contrast to his own, and though with his own he
never appeared dissatisfied. On the strength of Darcy’s regard, Bingley
had the firmest reliance, and of his judgment the highest opinion. In
understanding, Darcy was the superior. Bingley was by no means
deficient; but Darcy was clever. He was at the same time haughty,
reserved, and fastidious; and his manners, though well bred, were not
inviting. In that respect his friend had greatly the advantage. Bingley
was sure of being liked wherever he appeared; Darcy was continually
giving offence. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The manner in which they spoke of the Meryton assembly was sufficiently
characteristic. Bingley had never met with pleasanter people or prettier
girls in his life; everybody had been most kind and attentive to him;
there had been no formality, no stiffness; he had soon felt acquainted
with all the room; and as to Miss Bennet, he could not conceive an angel
more beautiful. Darcy, on the contrary, had seen a collection of people
in whom there was little beauty and no fashion, for none of whom he had
felt the smallest interest, and from none received either attention or
pleasure. Miss Bennet he acknowledged to be pretty; but she smiled too
much. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Hurst and her sister allowed it to be so; but still they admired
her and liked her, and pronounced her to be a sweet girl, and one whom
they should not object to know more of. Miss Bennet was therefore
established as a sweet girl; and their brother felt authorized by such
commendation to think of her as he chose. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Within a short walk of Longbourn lived a family with whom the Bennets
were particularly intimate. Sir William Lucas had been formerly in trade
in Meryton, where he had made a tolerable fortune, and risen to the
honour of knighthood by an address to the king during his mayoralty. The
distinction had, perhaps, been felt too strongly. It had given him a
disgust to his business and to his residence in a small market town;
and, quitting them both, he had removed with his family to a house about
a mile from Meryton, denominated from that period Lucas Lodge; where he
could think with pleasure of his own importance, and, unshackled by
business, occupy himself solely in being civil to all the world. For,
though elated by his rank, it did not render him supercilious; on the
contrary, he was all attention to everybody. By nature inoffensive,
friendly, and obliging, his presentation at St. James’s had made him
courteous. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Lady Lucas was a very good kind of woman, not too clever to be a
valuable neighbour to Mrs. Bennet. They had several children. The eldest
of them, a sensible, intelligent young woman, about twenty-seven, was
Elizabeth’s intimate friend. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> That the Miss Lucases and the Miss Bennets should meet to talk over a
ball was absolutely necessary; and the morning after the assembly
brought the former to Longbourn to hear and to communicate. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “_You_ began the evening well, Charlotte,” said Mrs. Bennet, with civil
self-command, to Miss Lucas. “_You_ were Mr. Bingley’s first choice.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, you mean Jane, I suppose, because he danced with her twice. To be
sure that _did_ seem as if he admired her--indeed, I rather believe he
_did_--I heard something about it--but I hardly know what--something
about Mr. Robinson.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Perhaps you mean what I overheard between him and Mr. Robinson: did not
I mention it to you? Mr. Robinson’s asking him how he liked our Meryton
assemblies, and whether he did not think there were a great many pretty
women in the room, and _which_ he thought the prettiest? and his
answering immediately to the last question, ‘Oh, the eldest Miss Bennet,
beyond a doubt: there cannot be two opinions on that point.’” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Upon my word! Well, that was very decided, indeed--that does seem as
if--but, however, it may all come to nothing, you know.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “_My_ overhearings were more to the purpose than _yours_, Eliza,” said
Charlotte. “Mr. Darcy is not so well worth listening to as his friend,
is he? Poor Eliza! to be only just _tolerable_.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I beg you will not put it into Lizzy’s head to be vexed by his
ill-treatment, for he is such a disagreeable man that it would be quite
a misfortune to be liked by him. Mrs. Long told me last night that he
sat close to her for half an hour without once opening his lips.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Are you quite sure, ma’am? Is not there a little mistake?” said Jane.
“I certainly saw Mr. Darcy speaking to her.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Ay, because she asked him at last how he liked Netherfield, and he
could not help answering her; but she said he seemed very angry at being
spoke to.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Miss Bingley told me,” said Jane, “that he never speaks much unless
among his intimate acquaintance. With _them_ he is remarkably
agreeable.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I do not believe a word of it, my dear. If he had been so very
agreeable, he would have talked to Mrs. Long. But I can guess how it
was; everybody says that he is eat up with pride, and I dare say he had
heard somehow that Mrs. Long does not keep a carriage, and had to come
to the ball in a hack chaise.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I do not mind his not talking to Mrs. Long,” said Miss Lucas, “but I
wish he had danced with Eliza.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “His pride,” said Miss Lucas, “does not offend _me_ so much as pride
often does, because there is an excuse for it. One cannot wonder that so
very fine a young man, with family, fortune, everything in his favour,
should think highly of himself. If I may so express it, he has a _right_
to be proud.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Pride,” observed Mary, who piqued herself upon the solidity of her
reflections, “is a very common failing, I believe. By all that I have
ever read, I am convinced that it is very common indeed; that human
nature is particularly prone to it, and that there are very few of us
who do not cherish a feeling of self-complacency on the score of some
quality or other, real or imaginary. Vanity and pride are different
things, though the words are often used synonymously. A person may be
proud without being vain. Pride relates more to our opinion of
ourselves; vanity to what we would have others think of us.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If I were as rich as Mr. Darcy,” cried a young Lucas, who came with his
sisters, “I should not care how proud I was. I would keep a pack of
foxhounds, and drink a bottle of wine every day.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Then you would drink a great deal more than you ought,” said Mrs.
Bennet; “and if I were to see you at it, I should take away your bottle
directly.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The boy protested that she should not; she continued to declare that she
would; and the argument ended only with the visit. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The ladies of Longbourn soon waited on those of Netherfield. The visit
was returned in due form. Miss Bennet’s pleasing manners grew on the
good-will of Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley; and though the mother was
found to be intolerable, and the younger sisters not worth speaking to,
a wish of being better acquainted with _them_ was expressed towards the
two eldest. By Jane this attention was received with the greatest
pleasure; but Elizabeth still saw superciliousness in their treatment of
everybody, hardly excepting even her sister, and could not like them;
though their kindness to Jane, such as it was, had a value, as arising,
in all probability, from the influence of their brother’s admiration. It
was generally evident, whenever they met, that he _did_ admire her; and
to _her_ it was equally evident that Jane was yielding to the preference
which she had begun to entertain for him from the first, and was in a
way to be very much in love; but she considered with pleasure that it
was not likely to be discovered by the world in general, since Jane
united with great strength of feeling, a composure of temper and an
uniform cheerfulness of manner, which would guard her from the
suspicions of the impertinent. She mentioned this to her friend, Miss
Lucas. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It may, perhaps, be pleasant,” replied Charlotte, “to be able to impose
on the public in such a case; but it is sometimes a disadvantage to be
so very guarded. If a woman conceals her affection with the same skill
from the object of it, she may lose the opportunity of fixing him; and
it will then be but poor consolation to believe the world equally in the
dark. There is so much of gratitude or vanity in almost every
attachment, that it is not safe to leave any to itself. We can all
_begin_ freely--a slight preference is natural enough; but there are
very few of us who have heart enough to be really in love without
encouragement. In nine cases out of ten, a woman had better show _more_
affection than she feels. Bingley likes your sister undoubtedly; but he
may never do more than like her, if she does not help him on.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But she does help him on, as much as her nature will allow. If _I_ can
perceive her regard for him, he must be a simpleton indeed not to
discover it too.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But if a woman is partial to a man, and does not endeavor to conceal
it, he must find it out.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Perhaps he must, if he sees enough of her. But though Bingley and Jane
meet tolerably often, it is never for many hours together; and as they
always see each other in large mixed parties, it is impossible that
every moment should be employed in conversing together. Jane should
therefore make the most of every half hour in which she can command his
attention. When she is secure of him, there will be leisure for falling
in love as much as she chooses.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Your plan is a good one,” replied Elizabeth, “where nothing is in
question but the desire of being well married; and if I were determined
to get a rich husband, or any husband, I dare say I should adopt it. But
these are not Jane’s feelings; she is not acting by design. As yet she
cannot even be certain of the degree of her own regard, nor of its
reasonableness. She has known him only a fortnight. She danced four
dances with him at Meryton; she saw him one morning at his own house,
and has since dined in company with him four times. This is not quite
enough to make her understand his character.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Not as you represent it. Had she merely _dined_ with him, she might
only have discovered whether he had a good appetite; but you must
remember that four evenings have been also spent together--and four
evenings may do a great deal.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes: these four evenings have enabled them to ascertain that they both
like Vingt-un better than Commerce, but with respect to any other
leading characteristic, I do not imagine that much has been unfolded.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well,” said Charlotte, “I wish Jane success with all my heart; and if
she were married to him to-morrow, I should think she had as good a
chance of happiness as if she were to be studying his character for a
twelvemonth. Happiness in marriage is entirely a matter of chance. If
the dispositions of the parties are ever so well known to each other, or
ever so similar beforehand, it does not advance their felicity in the
least. They always continue to grow sufficiently unlike afterwards to
have their share of vexation; and it is better to know as little as
possible of the defects of the person with whom you are to pass your
life.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You make me laugh, Charlotte; but it is not sound. You know it is not
sound, and that you would never act in this way yourself.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Occupied in observing Mr. Bingley’s attention to her sister, Elizabeth
was far from suspecting that she was herself becoming an object of some
interest in the eyes of his friend. Mr. Darcy had at first scarcely
allowed her to be pretty: he had looked at her without admiration at the
ball; and when they next met, he looked at her only to criticise. But no
sooner had he made it clear to himself and his friends that she had
hardly a good feature in her face, than he began to find it was rendered
uncommonly intelligent by the beautiful expression of her dark eyes. To
this discovery succeeded some others equally mortifying. Though he had
detected with a critical eye more than one failure of perfect symmetry
in her form, he was forced to acknowledge her figure to be light and
pleasing; and in spite of his asserting that her manners were not those
of the fashionable world, he was caught by their easy playfulness. Of
this she was perfectly unaware: to her he was only the man who made
himself agreeable nowhere, and who had not thought her handsome enough
to dance with. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He began to wish to know more of her; and, as a step towards conversing
with her himself, attended to her conversation with others. His doing so
drew her notice. It was at Sir William Lucas’s, where a large party were
assembled. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But if he does it any more, I shall certainly let him know that I see
what he is about. He has a very satirical eye, and if I do not begin by
being impertinent myself, I shall soon grow afraid of him.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> On his approaching them soon afterwards, though without seeming to have
any intention of speaking, Miss Lucas defied her friend to mention such
a subject to him, which immediately provoking Elizabeth to do it, she
turned to him and said,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Did not you think, Mr. Darcy, that I expressed myself uncommonly well
just now, when I was teasing Colonel Forster to give us a ball at
Meryton?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It will be _her_ turn soon to be teased,” said Miss Lucas. “I am going
to open the instrument, Eliza, and you know what follows.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You are a very strange creature by way of a friend!--always wanting me
to play and sing before anybody and everybody! If my vanity had taken a
musical turn, you would have been invaluable; but as it is, I would
really rather not sit down before those who must be in the habit of
hearing the very best performers.” On Miss Lucas’s persevering, however,
she added, “Very well; if it must be so, it must.” And gravely glancing
at Mr. Darcy, “There is a very fine old saying, which everybody here is
of course familiar with--‘Keep your breath to cool your porridge,’--and
I shall keep mine to swell my song.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Her performance was pleasing, though by no means capital. After a song
or two, and before she could reply to the entreaties of several that she
would sing again, she was eagerly succeeded at the instrument by her
sister Mary, who having, in consequence of being the only plain one in
the family, worked hard for knowledge and accomplishments, was always
impatient for display. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mary had neither genius nor taste; and though vanity had given her
application, it had given her likewise a pedantic air and conceited
manner, which would have injured a higher degree of excellence than she
had reached. Elizabeth, easy and unaffected, had been listened to with
much more pleasure, though not playing half so well; and Mary, at the
end of a long concerto, was glad to purchase praise and gratitude by
Scotch and Irish airs, at the request of her younger sisters, who with
some of the Lucases, and two or three officers, joined eagerly in
dancing at one end of the room. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Darcy stood near them in silent indignation at such a mode of
passing the evening, to the exclusion of all conversation, and was too
much engrossed by his own thoughts to perceive that Sir William Lucas
was his neighbour, till Sir William thus began:-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “What a charming amusement for young people this is, Mr. Darcy! There is
nothing like dancing, after all. I consider it as one of the first
refinements of polished societies.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Certainly, sir; and it has the advantage also of being in vogue amongst
the less polished societies of the world: every savage can dance.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Sir William only smiled. “Your friend performs delightfully,” he
continued, after a pause, on seeing Bingley join the group; “and I doubt
not that you are an adept in the science yourself, Mr. Darcy.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I had once some thoughts of fixing in town myself, for I am fond of
superior society; but I did not feel quite certain that the air of
London would agree with Lady Lucas.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He paused in hopes of an answer: but his companion was not disposed to
make any; and Elizabeth at that instant moving towards them, he was
struck with the notion of doing a very gallant thing, and called out to
her,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My dear Miss Eliza, why are not you dancing? Mr. Darcy, you must allow
me to present this young lady to you as a very desirable partner. You
cannot refuse to dance, I am sure, when so much beauty is before you.”
And, taking her hand, he would have given it to Mr. Darcy, who, though
extremely surprised, was not unwilling to receive it, when she instantly
drew back, and said with some discomposure to Sir William,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Indeed, sir, I have not the least intention of dancing. I entreat you
not to suppose that I moved this way in order to beg for a partner.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Darcy, with grave propriety, requested to be allowed the honour of
her hand, but in vain. Elizabeth was determined; nor did Sir William at
all shake her purpose by his attempt at persuasion. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You excel so much in the dance, Miss Eliza, that it is cruel to deny me
the happiness of seeing you; and though this gentleman dislikes the
amusement in general, he can have no objection, I am sure, to oblige us
for one half hour.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He is, indeed: but considering the inducement, my dear Miss Eliza, we
cannot wonder at his complaisance; for who would object to such a
partner?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth looked archly, and turned away. Her resistance had not injured
her with the gentleman, and he was thinking of her with some
complacency, when thus accosted by Miss Bingley,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You are considering how insupportable it would be to pass many
evenings in this manner,--in such society; and, indeed, I am quite of
your opinion. I was never more annoyed! The insipidity, and yet the
noise--the nothingness, and yet the self-importance, of all these
people! What would I give to hear your strictures on them!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Your conjecture is totally wrong, I assure you. My mind was more
agreeably engaged. I have been meditating on the very great pleasure
which a pair of fine eyes in the face of a pretty woman can bestow.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Miss Bingley immediately fixed her eyes on his face, and desired he
would tell her what lady had the credit of inspiring such reflections.
Mr. Darcy replied, with great intrepidity,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Miss Elizabeth Bennet!” repeated Miss Bingley. “I am all astonishment.
How long has she been such a favourite? and pray when am I to wish you
joy?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That is exactly the question which I expected you to ask. A lady’s
imagination is very rapid; it jumps from admiration to love, from love
to matrimony, in a moment. I knew you would be wishing me joy.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Nay, if you are so serious about it, I shall consider the matter as
absolutely settled. You will have a charming mother-in-law, indeed, and
of course she will be always at Pemberley with you.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He listened to her with perfect indifference, while she chose to
entertain herself in this manner; and as his composure convinced her
that all was safe, her wit flowed along. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Bennet’s property consisted almost entirely in an estate of two
thousand a year, which, unfortunately for his daughters, was entailed,
in default of heirs male, on a distant relation; and their mother’s
fortune, though ample for her situation in life, could but ill supply
the deficiency of his. Her father had been an attorney in Meryton, and
had left her four thousand pounds. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She had a sister married to a Mr. Philips, who had been a clerk to their
father and succeeded him in the business, and a brother settled in
London in a respectable line of trade. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The village of Longbourn was only one mile from Meryton; a most
convenient distance for the young ladies, who were usually tempted
thither three or four times a week, to pay their duty to their aunt, and
to a milliner’s shop just over the way. The two youngest of the family,
Catherine and Lydia, were particularly frequent in these attentions:
their minds were more vacant than their sisters’, and when nothing
better offered, a walk to Meryton was necessary to amuse their morning
hours and furnish conversation for the evening; and, however bare of
news the country in general might be, they always contrived to learn
some from their aunt. At present, indeed, they were well supplied both
with news and happiness by the recent arrival of a militia regiment in
the neighbourhood; it was to remain the whole winter, and Meryton was
the head-quarters. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Their visits to Mrs. Philips were now productive of the most interesting
intelligence. Every day added something to their knowledge of the
officers’ names and connections. Their lodgings were not long a secret,
and at length they began to know the officers themselves. Mr. Philips
visited them all, and this opened to his nieces a source of felicity
unknown before. They could talk of nothing but officers; and Mr.
Bingley’s large fortune, the mention of which gave animation to their
mother, was worthless in their eyes when opposed to the regimentals of
an ensign. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “From all that I can collect by your manner of talking, you must be two
of the silliest girls in the country. I have suspected it some time, but
I am now convinced.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Catherine was disconcerted, and made no answer; but Lydia, with perfect
indifference, continued to express her admiration of Captain Carter, and
her hope of seeing him in the course of the day, as he was going the
next morning to London. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am astonished, my dear,” said Mrs. Bennet, “that you should be so
ready to think your own children silly. If I wished to think slightingly
of anybody’s children, it should not be of my own, however.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This is the only point, I flatter myself, on which we do not agree. I
had hoped that our sentiments coincided in every particular, but I must
so far differ from you as to think our two youngest daughters uncommonly
foolish.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My dear Mr. Bennet, you must not expect such girls to have the sense of
their father and mother. When they get to our age, I dare say they will
not think about officers any more than we do. I remember the time when I
liked a red coat myself very well--and, indeed, so I do still at my
heart; and if a smart young colonel, with five or six thousand a year,
should want one of my girls, I shall not say nay to him; and I thought
Colonel Forster looked very becoming the other night at Sir William’s in
his regimentals.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Mamma,” cried Lydia, “my aunt says that Colonel Forster and Captain
Carter do not go so often to Miss Watson’s as they did when they first
came; she sees them now very often standing in Clarke’s library.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Bennet was prevented replying by the entrance of the footman with a
note for Miss Bennet; it came from Netherfield, and the servant waited
for an answer. Mrs. Bennet’s eyes sparkled with pleasure, and she was
eagerly calling out, while her daughter read,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, Jane, who is it from? What is it about? What does he say? Well,
Jane, make haste and tell us; make haste, my love.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If you are not so compassionate as to dine to-day with Louisa and
     me, we shall be in danger of hating each other for the rest of our
     lives; for a whole day’s _tête-à-tête_ between two women can never
     end without a quarrel. Come as soon as you can on the receipt of
     this. My brother and the gentlemen are to dine with the officers.
     Yours ever, </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No, my dear, you had better go on horseback, because it seems likely to
rain; and then you must stay all night.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That would be a good scheme,” said Elizabeth, “if you were sure that
they would not offer to send her home.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, but the gentlemen will have Mr. Bingley’s chaise to go to Meryton;
and the Hursts have no horses to theirs.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But, my dear, your father cannot spare the horses, I am sure. They are
wanted in the farm, Mr. Bennet, are not they?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She did at last extort from her father an acknowledgment that the horses
were engaged; Jane was therefore obliged to go on horseback, and her
mother attended her to the door with many cheerful prognostics of a bad
day. Her hopes were answered; Jane had not been gone long before it
rained hard. Her sisters were uneasy for her, but her mother was
delighted. The rain continued the whole evening without intermission;
Jane certainly could not come back. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This was a lucky idea of mine, indeed!” said Mrs. Bennet, more than
once, as if the credit of making it rain were all her own. Till the next
morning, however, she was not aware of all the felicity of her
contrivance. Breakfast was scarcely over when a servant from Netherfield
brought the following note for Elizabeth:-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I find myself very unwell this morning, which, I suppose, is to be
     imputed to my getting wet through yesterday. My kind friends will
     not hear of my returning home till I am better. They insist also on
     my seeing Mr. Jones--therefore do not be alarmed if you should hear
     of his having been to me--and, excepting a sore throat and a
     headache, there is not much the matter with me. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, my dear,” said Mr. Bennet, when Elizabeth had read the note
aloud, “if your daughter should have a dangerous fit of illness--if she
should die--it would be a comfort to know that it was all in pursuit of
Mr. Bingley, and under your orders.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, I am not at all afraid of her dying. People do not die of little
trifling colds. She will be taken good care of. As long as she stays
there, it is all very well. I would go and see her if I could have the
carriage.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth, feeling really anxious, determined to go to her, though the
carriage was not to be had: and as she was no horsewoman, walking was
her only alternative. She declared her resolution. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “How can you be so silly,” cried her mother, “as to think of such a
thing, in all this dirt! You will not be fit to be seen when you get
there.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No, indeed. I do not wish to avoid the walk. The distance is nothing,
when one has a motive; only three miles. I shall be back by dinner.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I admire the activity of your benevolence,” observed Mary, “but every
impulse of feeling should be guided by reason; and, in my opinion,
exertion should always be in proportion to what is required.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “We will go as far as Meryton with you,” said Catherine and Lydia.
Elizabeth accepted their company, and the three young ladies set off
together. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If we make haste,” said Lydia, as they walked along, “perhaps we may
see something of Captain Carter, before he goes.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In Meryton they parted: the two youngest repaired to the lodgings of one
of the officers’ wives, and Elizabeth continued her walk alone, crossing
field after field at a quick pace, jumping over stiles and springing
over puddles, with impatient activity, and finding herself at last
within view of the house, with weary ancles, dirty stockings, and a face
glowing with the warmth of exercise. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She was shown into the breakfast parlour, where all but Jane were
assembled, and where her appearance created a great deal of surprise.
That she should have walked three miles so early in the day in such
dirty weather, and by herself, was almost incredible to Mrs. Hurst and
Miss Bingley; and Elizabeth was convinced that they held her in contempt
for it. She was received, however, very politely by them; and in their
brother’s manners there was something better than politeness--there was
good-humour and kindness. Mr. Darcy said very little, and Mr. Hurst
nothing at all. The former was divided between admiration of the
brilliancy which exercise had given to her complexion and doubt as to
the occasion’s justifying her coming so far alone. The latter was
thinking only of his breakfast. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Her inquiries after her sister were not very favourably answered. Miss
Bennet had slept ill, and though up, was very feverish, and not well
enough to leave her room. Elizabeth was glad to be taken to her
immediately; and Jane, who had only been withheld by the fear of giving
alarm or inconvenience, from expressing in her note how much she longed
for such a visit, was delighted at her entrance. She was not equal,
however, to much conversation; and when Miss Bingley left them together,
could attempt little beside expressions of gratitude for the
extraordinary kindness she was treated with. Elizabeth silently attended
her. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When breakfast was over, they were joined by the sisters; and Elizabeth
began to like them herself, when she saw how much affection and
solicitude they showed for Jane. The apothecary came; and having
examined his patient, said, as might be supposed, that she had caught a
violent cold, and that they must endeavour to get the better of it;
advised her to return to bed, and promised her some draughts. The advice
was followed readily, for the feverish symptoms increased, and her head
ached acutely. Elizabeth did not quit her room for a moment, nor were
the other ladies often absent; the gentlemen being out, they had in fact
nothing to do elsewhere. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When the clock struck three, Elizabeth felt that she must go, and very
unwillingly said so. Miss Bingley offered her the carriage, and she only
wanted a little pressing to accept it, when Jane testified such concern
at parting with her that Miss Bingley was obliged to convert the offer
of the chaise into an invitation to remain at Netherfield for the
present. Elizabeth most thankfully consented, and a servant was
despatched to Longbourn, to acquaint the family with her stay, and bring
back a supply of clothes. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> At five o’clock the two ladies retired to dress, and at half-past six
Elizabeth was summoned to dinner. To the civil inquiries which then
poured in, and amongst which she had the pleasure of distinguishing the
much superior solicitude of Mr. Bingley, she could not make a very
favourable answer. Jane was by no means better. The sisters, on hearing
this, repeated three or four times how much they were grieved, how
shocking it was to have a bad cold, and how excessively they disliked
being ill themselves; and then thought no more of the matter: and their
indifference towards Jane, when not immediately before them, restored
Elizabeth to the enjoyment of all her original dislike. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Their brother, indeed, was the only one of the party whom she could
regard with any complacency. His anxiety for Jane was evident, and his
attentions to herself most pleasing; and they prevented her feeling
herself so much an intruder as she believed she was considered by the
others. She had very little notice from any but him. Miss Bingley was
engrossed by Mr. Darcy, her sister scarcely less so; and as for Mr.
Hurst, by whom Elizabeth sat, he was an indolent man, who lived only to
eat, drink, and play at cards, who, when he found her prefer a plain
dish to a ragout, had nothing to say to her. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When dinner was over, she returned directly to Jane, and Miss Bingley
began abusing her as soon as she was out of the room. Her manners were
pronounced to be very bad indeed,--a mixture of pride and impertinence:
she had no conversation, no style, no taste, no beauty. Mrs. Hurst
thought the same, and added,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “She has nothing, in short, to recommend her, but being an excellent
walker. I shall never forget her appearance this morning. She really
looked almost wild.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “She did indeed, Louisa. I could hardly keep my countenance. Very
nonsensical to come at all! Why must _she_ be scampering about the
country, because her sister had a cold? Her hair so untidy, so blowzy!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, and her petticoat; I hope you saw her petticoat, six inches deep
in mud, I am absolutely certain, and the gown which had been let down to
hide it not doing its office.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Your picture may be very exact, Louisa,” said Bingley; “but this was
all lost upon me. I thought Miss Elizabeth Bennet looked remarkably well
when she came into the room this morning. Her dirty petticoat quite
escaped my notice.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “_You_ observed it, Mr. Darcy, I am sure,” said Miss Bingley; “and I am
inclined to think that you would not wish to see _your sister_ make such
an exhibition.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “To walk three miles, or four miles, or five miles, or whatever it is,
above her ancles in dirt, and alone, quite alone! what could she mean by
it? It seems to me to show an abominable sort of conceited independence,
a most country-town indifference to decorum.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am afraid, Mr. Darcy,” observed Miss Bingley, in a half whisper,
“that this adventure has rather affected your admiration of her fine
eyes.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Not at all,” he replied: “they were brightened by the exercise.” A
short pause followed this speech, and Mrs. Hurst began again,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have an excessive regard for Jane Bennet,--she is really a very sweet
girl,--and I wish with all my heart she were well settled. But with such
a father and mother, and such low connections, I am afraid there is no
chance of it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> To this speech Bingley made no answer; but his sisters gave it their
hearty assent, and indulged their mirth for some time at the expense of
their dear friend’s vulgar relations. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> With a renewal of tenderness, however, they repaired to her room on
leaving the dining-parlour, and sat with her till summoned to coffee.
She was still very poorly, and Elizabeth would not quit her at all, till
late in the evening, when she had the comfort of seeing her asleep, and
when it appeared to her rather right than pleasant that she should go
down stairs herself. On entering the drawing-room, she found the whole
party at loo, and was immediately invited to join them; but suspecting
them to be playing high, she declined it, and making her sister the
excuse, said she would amuse herself, for the short time she could stay
below, with a book. Mr. Hurst looked at her with astonishment. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I deserve neither such praise nor such censure,” cried Elizabeth; “I
am _not_ a great reader, and I have pleasure in many things.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “In nursing your sister I am sure you have pleasure,” said Bingley; “and
I hope it will soon be increased by seeing her quite well.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth thanked him from her heart, and then walked towards a table
where a few books were lying. He immediately offered to fetch her
others; all that his library afforded. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And I wish my collection were larger for your benefit and my own
credit; but I am an idle fellow; and though I have not many, I have more
than I ever looked into.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am astonished,” said Miss Bingley, “that my father should have left
so small a collection of books. What a delightful library you have at
Pemberley, Mr. Darcy!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Neglect! I am sure you neglect nothing that can add to the beauties of
that noble place. Charles, when you build _your_ house, I wish it may be
half as delightful as Pemberley.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But I would really advise you to make your purchase in that
neighbourhood, and take Pemberley for a kind of model. There is not a
finer county in England than Derbyshire.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth was so much caught by what passed, as to leave her very little
attention for her book; and, soon laying it wholly aside, she drew near
the card-table, and stationed herself between Mr. Bingley and his eldest
sister, to observe the game. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “How I long to see her again! I never met with anybody who delighted me
so much. Such a countenance, such manners, and so extremely accomplished
for her age! Her performance on the pianoforte is exquisite.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is amazing to me,” said Bingley, “how young ladies can have patience
to be so very accomplished as they all are.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, all of them, I think. They all paint tables, cover screens, and
net purses. I scarcely know any one who cannot do all this; and I am
sure I never heard a young lady spoken of for the first time, without
being informed that she was very accomplished.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Your list of the common extent of accomplishments,” said Darcy, “has
too much truth. The word is applied to many a woman who deserves it no
otherwise than by netting a purse or covering a screen; but I am very
far from agreeing with you in your estimation of ladies in general. I
cannot boast of knowing more than half-a-dozen in the whole range of my
acquaintance that are really accomplished.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, certainly,” cried his faithful assistant, “no one can be really
esteemed accomplished who does not greatly surpass what is usually met
with. A woman must have a thorough knowledge of music, singing, drawing,
dancing, and the modern languages, to deserve the word; and, besides all
this, she must possess a certain something in her air and manner of
walking, the tone of her voice, her address and expressions, or the word
will be but half deserved.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “All this she must possess,” added Darcy; “and to all she must yet add
something more substantial in the improvement of her mind by extensive
reading.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “_I_ never saw such a woman. _I_ never saw such capacity, and taste, and
application, and elegance, as you describe, united.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley both cried out against the injustice of her
implied doubt, and were both protesting that they knew many women who
answered this description, when Mr. Hurst called them to order, with
bitter complaints of their inattention to what was going forward. As all
conversation was thereby at an end, Elizabeth soon afterwards left the
room. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Eliza Bennet,” said Miss Bingley, when the door was closed on her, “is
one of those young ladies who seek to recommend themselves to the other
sex by undervaluing their own; and with many men, I daresay, it
succeeds; but, in my opinion, it is a paltry device, a very mean art.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Undoubtedly,” replied Darcy, to whom this remark was chiefly addressed,
“there is meanness in _all_ the arts which ladies sometimes condescend
to employ for captivation. Whatever bears affinity to cunning is
despicable.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth joined them again only to say that her sister was worse, and
that she could not leave her. Bingley urged Mr. Jones’s being sent for
immediately; while his sisters, convinced that no country advice could
be of any service, recommended an express to town for one of the most
eminent physicians. This she would not hear of; but she was not so
unwilling to comply with their brother’s proposal; and it was settled
that Mr. Jones should be sent for early in the morning, if Miss Bennet
were not decidedly better. Bingley was quite uncomfortable; his sisters
declared that they were miserable. They solaced their wretchedness,
however, by duets after supper; while he could find no better relief to
his feelings than by giving his housekeeper directions that every
possible attention might be paid to the sick lady and her sister. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth passed the chief of the night in her sister’s room, and in the
morning had the pleasure of being able to send a tolerable answer to the
inquiries which she very early received from Mr. Bingley by a housemaid,
and some time afterwards from the two elegant ladies who waited on his
sisters. In spite of this amendment, however, she requested to have a
note sent to Longbourn, desiring her mother to visit Jane, and form her
own judgment of her situation. The note was immediately despatched, and
its contents as quickly complied with. Mrs. Bennet, accompanied by her
two youngest girls, reached Netherfield soon after the family breakfast. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Had she found Jane in any apparent danger, Mrs. Bennet would have been
very miserable; but being satisfied on seeing her that her illness was
not alarming, she had no wish of her recovering immediately, as her
restoration to health would probably remove her from Netherfield. She
would not listen, therefore, to her daughter’s proposal of being carried
home; neither did the apothecary, who arrived about the same time, think
it at all advisable. After sitting a little while with Jane, on Miss
Bingley’s appearance and invitation, the mother and three daughters all
attended her into the breakfast parlour. Bingley met them with hopes
that Mrs. Bennet had not found Miss Bennet worse than she expected. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Indeed I have, sir,” was her answer. “She is a great deal too ill to be
moved. Mr. Jones says we must not think of moving her. We must trespass
a little longer on your kindness.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You may depend upon it, madam,” said Miss Bingley, with cold civility,
“that Miss Bennet shall receive every possible attention while she
remains with us.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am sure,” she added, “if it was not for such good friends, I do not
know what would become of her, for she is very ill indeed, and suffers a
vast deal, though with the greatest patience in the world, which is
always the way with her, for she has, without exception, the sweetest
temper I ever met with. I often tell my other girls they are nothing to
_her_. You have a sweet room here, Mr. Bingley, and a charming prospect
over that gravel walk. I do not know a place in the country that is
equal to Netherfield. You will not think of quitting it in a hurry, I
hope, though you have but a short lease.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Whatever I do is done in a hurry,” replied he; “and therefore if I
should resolve to quit Netherfield, I should probably be off in five
minutes. At present, however, I consider myself as quite fixed here.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I wish I might take this for a compliment; but to be so easily seen
through, I am afraid, is pitiful.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That is as it happens. It does not necessarily follow that a deep,
intricate character is more or less estimable than such a one as yours.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Lizzy,” cried her mother, “remember where you are, and do not run on in
the wild manner that you are suffered to do at home.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I did not know before,” continued Bingley, immediately, “that you were
a studier of character. It must be an amusing study.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The country,” said Darcy, “can in general supply but few subjects for
such a study. In a country neighbourhood you move in a very confined and
unvarying society.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, indeed,” cried Mrs. Bennet, offended by his manner of mentioning a
country neighbourhood. “I assure you there is quite as much of _that_
going on in the country as in town.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Everybody was surprised; and Darcy, after looking at her for a moment,
turned silently away. Mrs. Bennet, who fancied she had gained a complete
victory over him, continued her triumph,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I cannot see that London has any great advantage over the country, for
my part, except the shops and public places. The country is a vast deal
pleasanter, is not it, Mr. Bingley?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “When I am in the country,” he replied, “I never wish to leave it; and
when I am in town, it is pretty much the same. They have each their
advantages, and I can be equally happy in either.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Ay, that is because you have the right disposition. But that
gentleman,” looking at Darcy, “seemed to think the country was nothing
at all.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Indeed, mamma, you are mistaken,” said Elizabeth, blushing for her
mother. “You quite mistook Mr. Darcy. He only meant that there was not
such a variety of people to be met with in the country as in town, which
you must acknowledge to be true.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Certainly, my dear, nobody said there were; but as to not meeting with
many people in this neighbourhood, I believe there are few
neighbourhoods larger. I know we dine with four-and-twenty families.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Nothing but concern for Elizabeth could enable Bingley to keep his
countenance. His sister was less delicate, and directed her eye towards
Mr. Darcy with a very expressive smile. Elizabeth, for the sake of
saying something that might turn her mother’s thoughts, now asked her if
Charlotte Lucas had been at Longbourn since _her_ coming away. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, she called yesterday with her father. What an agreeable man Sir
William is, Mr. Bingley--is not he? so much the man of fashion! so
genteel and so easy! He has always something to say to everybody. _That_
is my idea of good breeding; and those persons who fancy themselves very
important and never open their mouths quite mistake the matter.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No, she would go home. I fancy she was wanted about the mince-pies. For
my part, Mr. Bingley, _I_ always keep servants that can do their own
work; _my_ daughters are brought up differently. But everybody is to
judge for themselves, and the Lucases are a very good sort of girls, I
assure you. It is a pity they are not handsome! Not that _I_ think
Charlotte so _very_ plain; but then she is our particular friend.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh dear, yes; but you must own she is very plain. Lady Lucas herself
has often said so, and envied me Jane’s beauty. I do not like to boast
of my own child; but to be sure, Jane--one does not often see anybody
better looking. It is what everybody says. I do not trust my own
partiality. When she was only fifteen there was a gentleman at my
brother Gardiner’s in town so much in love with her, that my
sister-in-law was sure he would make her an offer before we came away.
But, however, he did not. Perhaps he thought her too young. However, he
wrote some verses on her, and very pretty they were.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And so ended his affection,” said Elizabeth, impatiently. “There has
been many a one, I fancy, overcome in the same way. I wonder who first
discovered the efficacy of poetry in driving away love!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Of a fine, stout, healthy love it may. Everything nourishes what is
strong already. But if it be only a slight, thin sort of inclination, I
am convinced that one good sonnet will starve it entirely away.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Darcy only smiled; and the general pause which ensued made Elizabeth
tremble lest her mother should be exposing herself again. She longed to
speak, but could think of nothing to say; and after a short silence Mrs.
Bennet began repeating her thanks to Mr. Bingley for his kindness to
Jane, with an apology for troubling him also with Lizzy. Mr. Bingley was
unaffectedly civil in his answer, and forced his younger sister to be
civil also, and say what the occasion required. She performed her part,
indeed, without much graciousness, but Mrs. Bennet was satisfied, and
soon afterwards ordered her carriage. Upon this signal, the youngest of
her daughters put herself forward. The two girls had been whispering to
each other during the whole visit; and the result of it was, that the
youngest should tax Mr. Bingley with having promised on his first coming
into the country to give a ball at Netherfield. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Lydia was a stout, well-grown girl of fifteen, with a fine complexion
and good-humoured countenance; a favourite with her mother, whose
affection had brought her into public at an early age. She had high
animal spirits, and a sort of natural self-consequence, which the
attentions of the officers, to whom her uncle’s good dinners and her
own easy manners recommended her, had increased into assurance. She was
very equal, therefore, to address Mr. Bingley on the subject of the
ball, and abruptly reminded him of his promise; adding, that it would be
the most shameful thing in the world if he did not keep it. His answer
to this sudden attack was delightful to her mother’s ear. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am perfectly ready, I assure you, to keep my engagement; and, when
your sister is recovered, you shall, if you please, name the very day of
the ball. But you would not wish to be dancing while she is ill?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Lydia declared herself satisfied. “Oh yes--it would be much better to
wait till Jane was well; and by that time, most likely, Captain Carter
would be at Meryton again. And when you have given _your_ ball,” she
added, “I shall insist on their giving one also. I shall tell Colonel
Forster it will be quite a shame if he does not.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Bennet and her daughters then departed, and Elizabeth returned
instantly to Jane, leaving her own and her relations’ behaviour to the
remarks of the two ladies and Mr. Darcy; the latter of whom, however,
could not be prevailed on to join in their censure of _her_, in spite of
all Miss Bingley’s witticisms on _fine eyes_. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The day passed much as the day before had done. Mrs. Hurst and Miss
Bingley had spent some hours of the morning with the invalid, who
continued, though slowly, to mend; and, in the evening, Elizabeth joined
their party in the drawing-room. The loo table, however, did not appear.
Mr. Darcy was writing, and Miss Bingley, seated near him, was watching
the progress of his letter, and repeatedly calling off his attention by
messages to his sister. Mr. Hurst and Mr. Bingley were at piquet, and
Mrs. Hurst was observing their game. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth took up some needlework, and was sufficiently amused in
attending to what passed between Darcy and his companion. The perpetual
commendations of the lady either on his hand-writing, or on the evenness
of his lines, or on the length of his letter, with the perfect unconcern
with which her praises were received, formed a curious dialogue, and was
exactly in unison with her opinion of each. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “How many letters you must have occasion to write in the course of a
year! Letters of business, too! How odious I should think them!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Tell your sister I am delighted to hear of her improvement on the harp,
and pray let her know that I am quite in raptures with her beautiful
little design for a table, and I think it infinitely superior to Miss
Grantley’s.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Will you give me leave to defer your raptures till I write again? At
present I have not room to do them justice.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, it is of no consequence. I shall see her in January. But do you
always write such charming long letters to her, Mr. Darcy?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That will not do for a compliment to Darcy, Caroline,” cried her
brother, “because he does _not_ write with ease. He studies too much
for words of four syllables. Do not you, Darcy?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh,” cried Miss Bingley, “Charles writes in the most careless way
imaginable. He leaves out half his words, and blots the rest.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My ideas flow so rapidly that I have not time to express them; by which
means my letters sometimes convey no ideas at all to my correspondents.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Nothing is more deceitful,” said Darcy, “than the appearance of
humility. It is often only carelessness of opinion, and sometimes an
indirect boast.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The indirect boast; for you are really proud of your defects in
writing, because you consider them as proceeding from a rapidity of
thought and carelessness of execution, which, if not estimable, you
think at least highly interesting. The power of doing anything with
quickness is always much prized by the possessor, and often without any
attention to the imperfection of the performance. When you told Mrs.
Bennet this morning, that if you ever resolved on quitting Netherfield
you should be gone in five minutes, you meant it to be a sort of
panegyric, of compliment to yourself; and yet what is there so very
laudable in a precipitance which must leave very necessary business
undone, and can be of no real advantage to yourself or anyone else?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Nay,” cried Bingley, “this is too much, to remember at night all the
foolish things that were said in the morning. And yet, upon my honour, I
believed what I said of myself to be true, and I believe it at this
moment. At least, therefore, I did not assume the character of needless
precipitance merely to show off before the ladies.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I daresay you believed it; but I am by no means convinced that you
would be gone with such celerity. Your conduct would be quite as
dependent on chance as that of any man I know; and if, as you were
mounting your horse, a friend were to say, ‘Bingley, you had better stay
till next week,’ you would probably do it--you would probably not
go--and, at another word, might stay a month.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You have only proved by this,” cried Elizabeth, “that Mr. Bingley did
not do justice to his own disposition. You have shown him off now much
more than he did himself.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am exceedingly gratified,” said Bingley, “by your converting what my
friend says into a compliment on the sweetness of my temper. But I am
afraid you are giving it a turn which that gentleman did by no means
intend; for he would certainly think the better of me if, under such a
circumstance, I were to give a flat denial, and ride off as fast as I
could.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Would Mr. Darcy then consider the rashness of your original intention
as atoned for by your obstinacy in adhering to it?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You expect me to account for opinions which you choose to call mine,
but which I have never acknowledged. Allowing the case, however, to
stand according to your representation, you must remember, Miss Bennet,
that the friend who is supposed to desire his return to the house, and
the delay of his plan, has merely desired it, asked it without offering
one argument in favour of its propriety.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You appear to me, Mr. Darcy, to allow nothing for the influence of
friendship and affection. A regard for the requester would often make
one readily yield to a request, without waiting for arguments to reason
one into it. I am not particularly speaking of such a case as you have
supposed about Mr. Bingley. We may as well wait, perhaps, till the
circumstance occurs, before we discuss the discretion of his behaviour
thereupon. But in general and ordinary cases, between friend and friend,
where one of them is desired by the other to change a resolution of no
very great moment, should you think ill of that person for complying
with the desire, without waiting to be argued into it?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Will it not be advisable, before we proceed on this subject, to arrange
with rather more precision the degree of importance which is to
appertain to this request, as well as the degree of intimacy subsisting
between the parties?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “By all means,” cried Bingley; “let us hear all the particulars, not
forgetting their comparative height and size, for that will have more
weight in the argument, Miss Bennet, than you may be aware of. I assure
you that if Darcy were not such a great tall fellow, in comparison with
myself, I should not pay him half so much deference. I declare I do not
know a more awful object than Darcy on particular occasions, and in
particular places; at his own house especially, and of a Sunday evening,
when he has nothing to do.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Darcy smiled; but Elizabeth thought she could perceive that he was
rather offended, and therefore checked her laugh. Miss Bingley warmly
resented the indignity he had received, in an expostulation with her
brother for talking such nonsense. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Perhaps I do. Arguments are too much like disputes. If you and Miss
Bennet will defer yours till I am out of the room, I shall be very
thankful; and then you may say whatever you like of me.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When that business was over, he applied to Miss Bingley and Elizabeth
for the indulgence of some music. Miss Bingley moved with alacrity to
the pianoforte, and after a polite request that Elizabeth would lead the
way, which the other as politely and more earnestly negatived, she
seated herself. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Hurst sang with her sister; and while they were thus employed,
Elizabeth could not help observing, as she turned over some music-books
that lay on the instrument, how frequently Mr. Darcy’s eyes were fixed
on her. She hardly knew how to suppose that she could be an object of
admiration to so great a man, and yet that he should look at her because
he disliked her was still more strange. She could only imagine, however,
at last, that she drew his notice because there was something about her
more wrong and reprehensible, according to his ideas of right, than in
any other person present. The supposition did not pain her. She liked
him too little to care for his approbation. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> After playing some Italian songs, Miss Bingley varied the charm by a
lively Scotch air; and soon afterwards Mr. Darcy, drawing near
Elizabeth, said to her,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh,” said she, “I heard you before; but I could not immediately
determine what to say in reply. You wanted me, I know, to say ‘Yes,’
that you might have the pleasure of despising my taste; but I always
delight in overthrowing those kind of schemes, and cheating a person of
their premeditated contempt. I have, therefore, made up my mind to tell
you that I do not want to dance a reel at all; and now despise me if you
dare.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth, having rather expected to affront him, was amazed at his
gallantry; but there was a mixture of sweetness and archness in her
manner which made it difficult for her to affront anybody, and Darcy had
never been so bewitched by any woman as he was by her. He really
believed that, were it not for the inferiority of her connections, he
should be in some danger. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Miss Bingley saw, or suspected, enough to be jealous; and her great
anxiety for the recovery of her dear friend Jane received some
assistance from her desire of getting rid of Elizabeth. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She often tried to provoke Darcy into disliking her guest, by talking of
their supposed marriage, and planning his happiness in such an alliance. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I hope,” said she, as they were walking together in the shrubbery the
next day, “you will give your mother-in-law a few hints, when this
desirable event takes place, as to the advantage of holding her tongue;
and if you can compass it, to cure the younger girls of running after
the officers. And, if I may mention so delicate a subject, endeavour to
check that little something, bordering on conceit and impertinence,
which your lady possesses.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh yes. Do let the portraits of your uncle and aunt Philips be placed
in the gallery at Pemberley. Put them next to your great-uncle the
judge. They are in the same profession, you know, only in different
lines. As for your Elizabeth’s picture, you must not attempt to have it
taken, for what painter could do justice to those beautiful eyes?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It would not be easy, indeed, to catch their expression; but their
colour and shape, and the eyelashes, so remarkably fine, might be
copied.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Then taking the disengaged arm of Mr. Darcy, she left Elizabeth to walk
by herself. The path just admitted three. Mr. Darcy felt their rudeness,
and immediately said,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No, no; stay where you are. You are charmingly grouped, and appear to
uncommon advantage. The picturesque would be spoilt by admitting a
fourth. Good-bye.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She then ran gaily off, rejoicing, as she rambled about, in the hope of
being at home again in a day or two. Jane was already so much recovered
as to intend leaving her room for a couple of hours that evening. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When the ladies removed after dinner Elizabeth ran up to her sister, and
seeing her well guarded from cold, attended her into the drawing-room,
where she was welcomed by her two friends with many professions of
pleasure; and Elizabeth had never seen them so agreeable as they were
during the hour which passed before the gentlemen appeared. Their powers
of conversation were considerable. They could describe an entertainment
with accuracy, relate an anecdote with humour, and laugh at their
acquaintance with spirit. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But when the gentlemen entered, Jane was no longer the first object;
Miss Bingley’s eyes were instantly turned towards Darcy, and she had
something to say to him before he had advanced many steps. He addressed
himself directly to Miss Bennet with a polite congratulation; Mr. Hurst
also made her a slight bow, and said he was “very glad;” but diffuseness
and warmth remained for Bingley’s salutation. He was full of joy and
attention. The first half hour was spent in piling up the fire, lest she
should suffer from the change of room; and she removed, at his desire,
to the other side of the fireplace, that she might be farther from the
door. He then sat down by her, and talked scarcely to anyone else.
Elizabeth, at work in the opposite corner, saw it all with great
delight. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When tea was over Mr. Hurst reminded his sister-in-law of the
card-table--but in vain. She had obtained private intelligence that Mr.
Darcy did not wish for cards, and Mr. Hurst soon found even his open
petition rejected. She assured him that no one intended to play, and the
silence of the whole party on the subject seemed to justify her. Mr.
Hurst had, therefore, nothing to do but to stretch himself on one of the
sofas and go to sleep. Darcy took up a book. Miss Bingley did the same;
and Mrs. Hurst, principally occupied in playing with her bracelets and
rings, joined now and then in her brother’s conversation with Miss
Bennet. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Miss Bingley’s attention was quite as much engaged in watching Mr.
Darcy’s progress through _his_ book, as in reading her own; and she was
perpetually either making some inquiry, or looking at his page. She
could not win him, however, to any conversation; he merely answered her
question and read on. At length, quite exhausted by the attempt to be
amused with her own book, which she had only chosen because it was the
second volume of his, she gave a great yawn and said, “How pleasant it
is to spend an evening in this way! I declare, after all, there is no
enjoyment like reading! How much sooner one tires of anything than of a
book! When I have a house of my own, I shall be miserable if I have not
an excellent library.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> No one made any reply. She then yawned again, threw aside her book, and
cast her eyes round the room in quest of some amusement; when, hearing
her brother mentioning a ball to Miss Bennet, she turned suddenly
towards him and said,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “By the bye Charles, are you really serious in meditating a dance at
Netherfield? I would advise you, before you determine on it, to consult
the wishes of the present party; I am much mistaken if there are not
some among us to whom a ball would be rather a punishment than a
pleasure.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If you mean Darcy,” cried her brother, “he may go to bed, if he
chooses, before it begins; but as for the ball, it is quite a settled
thing, and as soon as Nicholls has made white soup enough I shall send
round my cards.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I should like balls infinitely better,” she replied, “if they were
carried on in a different manner; but there is something insufferably
tedious in the usual process of such a meeting. It would surely be much
more rational if conversation instead of dancing made the order of the
day.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Miss Bingley made no answer, and soon afterwards got up and walked about
the room. Her figure was elegant, and she walked well; but Darcy, at
whom it was all aimed, was still inflexibly studious. In the
desperation of her feelings, she resolved on one effort more; and,
turning to Elizabeth, said,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Miss Eliza Bennet, let me persuade you to follow my example, and take a
turn about the room. I assure you it is very refreshing after sitting so
long in one attitude.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth was surprised, but agreed to it immediately. Miss Bingley
succeeded no less in the real object of her civility: Mr. Darcy looked
up. He was as much awake to the novelty of attention in that quarter as
Elizabeth herself could be, and unconsciously closed his book. He was
directly invited to join their party, but he declined it, observing that
he could imagine but two motives for their choosing to walk up and down
the room together, with either of which motives his joining them would
interfere. What could he mean? She was dying to know what could be his
meaning--and asked Elizabeth whether she could at all understand him. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Not at all,” was her answer; “but, depend upon it, he means to be
severe on us, and our surest way of disappointing him will be to ask
nothing about it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Miss Bingley, however, was incapable of disappointing Mr. Darcy in
anything, and persevered, therefore, in requiring an explanation of his
two motives. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have not the smallest objection to explaining them,” said he, as soon
as she allowed him to speak. “You either choose this method of passing
the evening because you are in each other’s confidence, and have secret
affairs to discuss, or because you are conscious that your figures
appear to the greatest advantage in walking: if the first, I should be
completely in your way; and if the second, I can admire you much better
as I sit by the fire.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Nothing so easy, if you have but the inclination,” said Elizabeth. “We
can all plague and punish one another. Tease him--laugh at him. Intimate
as you are, you must know how it is to be done.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But upon my honour I do _not_. I do assure you that my intimacy has not
yet taught me _that_. Tease calmness of temper and presence of mind! No,
no; I feel he may defy us there. And as to laughter, we will not expose
ourselves, if you please, by attempting to laugh without a subject. Mr.
Darcy may hug himself.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Mr. Darcy is not to be laughed at!” cried Elizabeth. “That is an
uncommon advantage, and uncommon I hope it will continue, for it would
be a great loss to _me_ to have many such acquaintance. I dearly love a
laugh.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Miss Bingley,” said he, “has given me credit for more than can be. The
wisest and best of men,--nay, the wisest and best of their actions,--may
be rendered ridiculous by a person whose first object in life is a
joke.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Certainly,” replied Elizabeth, “there are such people, but I hope I am
not one of _them_. I hope I never ridicule what is wise or good. Follies
and nonsense, whims and inconsistencies, _do_ divert me, I own, and I
laugh at them whenever I can. But these, I suppose, are precisely what
you are without.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Perhaps that is not possible for anyone. But it has been the study of
my life to avoid those weaknesses which often expose a strong
understanding to ridicule.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, vanity is a weakness indeed. But pride--where there is a real
superiority of mind--pride will be always under good regulation.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No,” said Darcy, “I have made no such pretension. I have faults enough,
but they are not, I hope, of understanding. My temper I dare not vouch
for. It is, I believe, too little yielding; certainly too little for the
convenience of the world. I cannot forget the follies and vices of
others so soon as I ought, nor their offences against myself. My
feelings are not puffed about with every attempt to move them. My temper
would perhaps be called resentful. My good opinion once lost is lost for
ever.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “_That_ is a failing, indeed!” cried Elizabeth. “Implacable resentment
_is_ a shade in a character. But you have chosen your fault well. I
really cannot _laugh_ at it. You are safe from me.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “There is, I believe, in every disposition a tendency to some particular
evil, a natural defect, which not even the best education can overcome.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Do let us have a little music,” cried Miss Bingley, tired of a
conversation in which she had no share. “Louisa, you will not mind my
waking Mr. Hurst.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Her sister made not the smallest objection, and the pianoforte was
opened; and Darcy, after a few moments’ recollection, was not sorry for
it. He began to feel the danger of paying Elizabeth too much attention. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In consequence of an agreement between the sisters, Elizabeth wrote the
next morning to her mother, to beg that the carriage might be sent for
them in the course of the day. But Mrs. Bennet, who had calculated on
her daughters remaining at Netherfield till the following Tuesday, which
would exactly finish Jane’s week, could not bring herself to receive
them with pleasure before. Her answer, therefore, was not propitious, at
least not to Elizabeth’s wishes, for she was impatient to get home. Mrs.
Bennet sent them word that they could not possibly have the carriage
before Tuesday; and in her postscript it was added, that if Mr. Bingley
and his sister pressed them to stay longer, she could spare them very
well. Against staying longer, however, Elizabeth was positively
resolved--nor did she much expect it would be asked; and fearful, on the
contrary, of being considered as intruding themselves needlessly long,
she urged Jane to borrow Mr. Bingley’s carriage immediately, and at
length it was settled that their original design of leaving Netherfield
that morning should be mentioned, and the request made. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The communication excited many professions of concern; and enough was
said of wishing them to stay at least till the following day to work on
Jane; and till the morrow their going was deferred. Miss Bingley was
then sorry that she had proposed the delay; for her jealousy and dislike
of one sister much exceeded her affection for the other. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The master of the house heard with real sorrow that they were to go so
soon, and repeatedly tried to persuade Miss Bennet that it would not be
safe for her--that she was not enough recovered; but Jane was firm where
she felt herself to be right. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> To Mr. Darcy it was welcome intelligence: Elizabeth had been at
Netherfield long enough. She attracted him more than he liked; and Miss
Bingley was uncivil to _her_ and more teasing than usual to himself. He
wisely resolved to be particularly careful that no sign of admiration
should _now_ escape him--nothing that could elevate her with the hope of
influencing his felicity; sensible that, if such an idea had been
suggested, his behaviour during the last day must have material weight
in confirming or crushing it. Steady to his purpose, he scarcely spoke
ten words to her through the whole of Saturday: and though they were at
one time left by themselves for half an hour, he adhered most
conscientiously to his book, and would not even look at her. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> On Sunday, after morning service, the separation, so agreeable to almost
all, took place. Miss Bingley’s civility to Elizabeth increased at last
very rapidly, as well as her affection for Jane; and when they parted,
after assuring the latter of the pleasure it would always give her to
see her either at Longbourn or Netherfield, and embracing her most
tenderly, she even shook hands with the former. Elizabeth took leave of
the whole party in the liveliest spirits. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> They were not welcomed home very cordially by their mother. Mrs. Bennet
wondered at their coming, and thought them very wrong to give so much
trouble, and was sure Jane would have caught cold again. But their
father, though very laconic in his expressions of pleasure, was really
glad to see them; he had felt their importance in the family circle. The
evening conversation, when they were all assembled, had lost much of its
animation, and almost all its sense, by the absence of Jane and
Elizabeth. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> They found Mary, as usual, deep in the study of thorough bass and human
nature; and had some new extracts to admire and some new observations of
threadbare morality to listen to. Catherine and Lydia had information
for them of a different sort. Much had been done, and much had been said
in the regiment since the preceding Wednesday; several of the officers
had dined lately with their uncle; a private had been flogged; and it
had actually been hinted that Colonel Forster was going to be married. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I hope, my dear,” said Mr. Bennet to his wife, as they were at
breakfast the next morning, “that you have ordered a good dinner to-day,
because I have reason to expect an addition to our family party.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Who do you mean, my dear? I know of nobody that is coming, I am sure,
unless Charlotte Lucas should happen to call in; and I hope _my_ dinners
are good enough for her. I do not believe she often sees such at home.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Bennet’s eyes sparkled. “A gentleman and a stranger! It is Mr.
Bingley, I am sure. Why, Jane--you never dropped a word of this--you sly
thing! Well, I am sure I shall be extremely glad to see Mr. Bingley.
But--good Lord! how unlucky! there is not a bit of fish to be got
to-day. Lydia, my love, ring the bell. I must speak to Hill this
moment.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is _not_ Mr. Bingley,” said her husband; “it is a person whom I
never saw in the whole course of my life.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This roused a general astonishment; and he had the pleasure of being
eagerly questioned by his wife and five daughters at once. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> After amusing himself some time with their curiosity, he thus
explained:--“About a month ago I received this letter, and about a
fortnight ago I answered it; for I thought it a case of some delicacy,
and requiring early attention. It is from my cousin, Mr. Collins, who,
when I am dead, may turn you all out of this house as soon as he
pleases.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, my dear,” cried his wife, “I cannot bear to hear that mentioned.
Pray do not talk of that odious man. I do think it is the hardest thing
in the world, that your estate should be entailed away from your own
children; and I am sure, if I had been you, I should have tried long ago
to do something or other about it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Jane and Elizabeth attempted to explain to her the nature of an entail.
They had often attempted it before: but it was a subject on which Mrs.
Bennet was beyond the reach of reason; and she continued to rail
bitterly against the cruelty of settling an estate away from a family of
five daughters, in favour of a man whom nobody cared anything about. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It certainly is a most iniquitous affair,” said Mr. Bennet; “and
nothing can clear Mr. Collins from the guilt of inheriting Longbourn.
But if you will listen to his letter, you may, perhaps, be a little
softened by his manner of expressing himself.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No, that I am sure I shall not: and I think it was very impertinent of
him to write to you at all, and very hypocritical. I hate such false
friends. Why could not he keep on quarrelling with you, as his father
did before him?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The disagreement subsisting between yourself and my late honoured
     father always gave me much uneasiness; and, since I have had the
     misfortune to lose him, I have frequently wished to heal the
     breach: but, for some time, I was kept back by my own doubts,
     fearing lest it might seem disrespectful to his memory for me to be
     on good terms with anyone with whom it had always pleased him to be
     at variance.”--‘There, Mrs. Bennet.’--“My mind, however, is now
     made up on the subject; for, having received ordination at Easter,
     I have been so fortunate as to be distinguished by the patronage of
     the Right Honourable Lady Catherine de Bourgh, widow of Sir Lewis
     de Bourgh, whose bounty and beneficence has preferred me to the
     valuable rectory of this parish, where it shall be my earnest
     endeavour to demean myself with grateful respect towards her
     Ladyship, and be ever ready to perform those rites and ceremonies
     which are instituted by the Church of England. As a clergyman,
     moreover, I feel it my duty to promote and establish the blessing
     of peace in all families within the reach of my influence; and on
     these grounds I flatter myself that my present overtures of
     good-will are highly commendable, and that the circumstance of my
     being next in the entail of Longbourn estate will be kindly
     overlooked on your side, and not lead you to reject the offered
     olive branch. I cannot be otherwise than concerned at being the
     means of injuring your amiable daughters, and beg leave to
     apologize for it, as well as to assure you of my readiness to make
     them every possible amends; but of this hereafter. If you should
     have no objection to receive me into your house, I propose myself
     the satisfaction of waiting on you and your family, Monday,
     November 18th, by four o’clock, and shall probably trespass on your
     hospitality till the Saturday se’nnight following, which I can do
     without any inconvenience, as Lady Catherine is far from objecting
     to my occasional absence on a Sunday, provided that some other
     clergyman is engaged to do the duty of the day. I remain, dear sir,
     with respectful compliments to your lady and daughters, your
     well-wisher and friend, </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “At four o’clock, therefore, we may expect this peace-making gentleman,”
said Mr. Bennet, as he folded up the letter. “He seems to be a most
conscientious and polite young man, upon my word; and, I doubt not, will
prove a valuable acquaintance, especially if Lady Catherine should be so
indulgent as to let him come to us again.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “There is some sense in what he says about the girls, however; and, if
he is disposed to make them any amends, I shall not be the person to
discourage him.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Though it is difficult,” said Jane, “to guess in what way he can mean
to make us the atonement he thinks our due, the wish is certainly to his
credit.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth was chiefly struck with his extraordinary deference for Lady
Catherine, and his kind intention of christening, marrying, and burying
his parishioners whenever it were required. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He must be an oddity, I think,” said she. “I cannot make him out. There
is something very pompous in his style. And what can he mean by
apologizing for being next in the entail? We cannot suppose he would
help it, if he could. Can he be a sensible man, sir?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No, my dear; I think not. I have great hopes of finding him quite the
reverse. There is a mixture of servility and self-importance in his
letter which promises well. I am impatient to see him.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “In point of composition,” said Mary, “his letter does not seem
defective. The idea of the olive branch perhaps is not wholly new, yet I
think it is well expressed.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> To Catherine and Lydia neither the letter nor its writer were in any
degree interesting. It was next to impossible that their cousin should
come in a scarlet coat, and it was now some weeks since they had
received pleasure from the society of a man in any other colour. As for
their mother, Mr. Collins’s letter had done away much of her ill-will,
and she was preparing to see him with a degree of composure which
astonished her husband and daughters. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Collins was punctual to his time, and was received with great
politeness by the whole family. Mr. Bennet indeed said little; but the
ladies were ready enough to talk, and Mr. Collins seemed neither in need
of encouragement, nor inclined to be silent himself. He was a tall,
heavy-looking young man of five-and-twenty. His air was grave and
stately, and his manners were very formal. He had not been long seated
before he complimented Mrs. Bennet on having so fine a family of
daughters, said he had heard much of their beauty, but that, in this
instance, fame had fallen short of the truth; and added, that he did not
doubt her seeing them all in due time well disposed of in marriage. This
gallantry was not much to the taste of some of his hearers; but Mrs.
Bennet, who quarrelled with no compliments, answered most readily,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You are very kind, sir, I am sure; and I wish with all my heart it may
prove so; for else they will be destitute enough. Things are settled so
oddly.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Ah, sir, I do indeed. It is a grievous affair to my poor girls, you
must confess. Not that I mean to find fault with _you_, for such things,
I know, are all chance in this world. There is no knowing how estates
will go when once they come to be entailed.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am very sensible, madam, of the hardship to my fair cousins, and
could say much on the subject, but that I am cautious of appearing
forward and precipitate. But I can assure the young ladies that I come
prepared to admire them. At present I will not say more, but, perhaps,
when we are better acquainted----” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He was interrupted by a summons to dinner; and the girls smiled on each
other. They were not the only objects of Mr. Collins’s admiration. The
hall, the dining-room, and all its furniture, were examined and praised;
and his commendation of everything would have touched Mrs. Bennet’s
heart, but for the mortifying supposition of his viewing it all as his
own future property. The dinner, too, in its turn, was highly admired;
and he begged to know to which of his fair cousins the excellence of its
cookery was owing. But here he was set right by Mrs. Bennet, who assured
him, with some asperity, that they were very well able to keep a good
cook, and that her daughters had nothing to do in the kitchen. He begged
pardon for having displeased her. In a softened tone she declared
herself not at all offended; but he continued to apologize for about a
quarter of an hour. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> During dinner, Mr. Bennet scarcely spoke at all; but when the servants
were withdrawn, he thought it time to have some conversation with his
guest, and therefore started a subject in which he expected him to
shine, by observing that he seemed very fortunate in his patroness. Lady
Catherine de Bourgh’s attention to his wishes, and consideration for his
comfort, appeared very remarkable. Mr. Bennet could not have chosen
better. Mr. Collins was eloquent in her praise. The subject elevated him
to more than usual solemnity of manner; and with a most important aspect
he protested that he had never in his life witnessed such behaviour in a
person of rank--such affability and condescension, as he had himself
experienced from Lady Catherine. She had been graciously pleased to
approve of both the discourses which he had already had the honour of
preaching before her. She had also asked him twice to dine at Rosings,
and had sent for him only the Saturday before, to make up her pool of
quadrille in the evening. Lady Catherine was reckoned proud by many
people, he knew, but _he_ had never seen anything but affability in her.
She had always spoken to him as she would to any other gentleman; she
made not the smallest objection to his joining in the society of the
neighbourhood, nor to his leaving his parish occasionally for a week or
two to visit his relations. She had even condescended to advise him to
marry as soon as he could, provided he chose with discretion; and had
once paid him a visit in his humble parsonage, where she had perfectly
approved all the alterations he had been making, and had even vouchsafed
to suggest some herself,--some shelves in the closets upstairs. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That is all very proper and civil, I am sure,” said Mrs. Bennet, “and I
dare say she is a very agreeable woman. It is a pity that great ladies
in general are not more like her. Does she live near you, sir?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Ah,” cried Mrs. Bennet, shaking her head, “then she is better off than
many girls. And what sort of young lady is she? Is she handsome?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “She is a most charming young lady, indeed. Lady Catherine herself says
that, in point of true beauty, Miss de Bourgh is far superior to the
handsomest of her sex; because there is that in her features which marks
the young woman of distinguished birth. She is unfortunately of a sickly
constitution, which has prevented her making that progress in many
accomplishments which she could not otherwise have failed of, as I am
informed by the lady who superintended her education, and who still
resides with them. But she is perfectly amiable, and often condescends
to drive by my humble abode in her little phaeton and ponies.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Her indifferent state of health unhappily prevents her being in town;
and by that means, as I told Lady Catherine myself one day, has deprived
the British Court of its brightest ornament. Her Ladyship seemed pleased
with the idea; and you may imagine that I am happy on every occasion to
offer those little delicate compliments which are always acceptable to
ladies. I have more than once observed to Lady Catherine, that her
charming daughter seemed born to be a duchess; and that the most
elevated rank, instead of giving her consequence, would be adorned by
her. These are the kind of little things which please her Ladyship, and
it is a sort of attention which I conceive myself peculiarly bound to
pay.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You judge very properly,” said Mr. Bennet; “and it is happy for you
that you possess the talent of flattering with delicacy. May I ask
whether these pleasing attentions proceed from the impulse of the
moment, or are the result of previous study?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “They arise chiefly from what is passing at the time; and though I
sometimes amuse myself with suggesting and arranging such little elegant
compliments as may be adapted to ordinary occasions, I always wish to
give them as unstudied an air as possible.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Bennet’s expectations were fully answered. His cousin was as absurd
as he had hoped; and he listened to him with the keenest enjoyment,
maintaining at the same time the most resolute composure of countenance,
and, except in an occasional glance at Elizabeth, requiring no partner
in his pleasure. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> By tea-time, however, the dose had been enough, and Mr. Bennet was glad
to take his guest into the drawing-room again, and when tea was over,
glad to invite him </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> to read aloud to the ladies. Mr. Collins readily assented, and a book
was produced; but on beholding it (for everything announced it to be
from a circulating library) he started back, and, begging pardon,
protested that he never read novels. Kitty stared at him, and Lydia
exclaimed. Other books were produced, and after some deliberation he
chose “Fordyce’s Sermons.” Lydia gaped as he opened the volume; and
before he had, with very monotonous solemnity, read three pages, she
interrupted him with,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Do you know, mamma, that my uncle Philips talks of turning away
Richard? and if he does, Colonel Forster will hire him. My aunt told me
so herself on Saturday. I shall walk to Meryton to-morrow to hear more
about it, and to ask when Mr. Denny comes back from town.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Lydia was bid by her two eldest sisters to hold her tongue; but Mr.
Collins, much offended, laid aside his book, and said,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have often observed how little young ladies are interested by books
of a serious stamp, though written solely for their benefit. It amazes
me, I confess; for certainly there can be nothing so advantageous to
them as instruction. But I will no longer importune my young cousin.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Then, turning to Mr. Bennet, he offered himself as his antagonist at
backgammon. Mr. Bennet accepted the challenge, observing that he acted
very wisely in leaving the girls to their own trifling amusements. Mrs.
Bennet and her daughters apologized most civilly for Lydia’s
interruption, and promised that it should not occur again, if he would
resume his book; but Mr. Collins, after assuring them that he bore his
young cousin no ill-will, and should never resent her behaviour as any
affront, seated himself at another table with Mr. Bennet, and prepared
for backgammon. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Collins was not a sensible man, and the deficiency of nature had
been but little assisted by education or society; the greatest part of
his life having been spent under the guidance of an illiterate and
miserly father; and though he belonged to one of the universities, he
had merely kept the necessary terms without forming at it any useful
acquaintance. The subjection in which his father had brought him up had
given him originally great humility of manner; but it was now a good
deal counteracted by the self-conceit of a weak head, living in
retirement, and the consequential feelings of early and unexpected
prosperity. A fortunate chance had recommended him to Lady Catherine de
Bourgh when the living of Hunsford was vacant; and the respect which he
felt for her high rank, and his veneration for her as his patroness,
mingling with a very good opinion of himself, of his authority as a
clergyman, and his right as a rector, made him altogether a mixture of
pride and obsequiousness, self-importance and humility. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Having now a good house and a very sufficient income, he intended to
marry; and in seeking a reconciliation with the Longbourn family he had
a wife in view, as he meant to choose one of the daughters, if he found
them as handsome and amiable as they were represented by common report.
This was his plan of amends--of atonement--for inheriting their father’s
estate; and he thought it an excellent one, full of eligibility and
suitableness, and excessively generous and disinterested on his own
part. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> His plan did not vary on seeing them. Miss Bennet’s lovely face
confirmed his views, and established all his strictest notions of what
was due to seniority; and for the first evening _she_ was his settled
choice. The next morning, however, made an alteration; for in a quarter
of an hour’s _tête-à-tête_ with Mrs. Bennet before breakfast, a
conversation beginning with his parsonage-house, and leading naturally
to the avowal of his hopes, that a mistress for it might be found at
Longbourn, produced from her, amid very complaisant smiles and general
encouragement, a caution against the very Jane he had fixed on. “As to
her _younger_ daughters, she could not take upon her to say--she could
not positively answer--but she did not _know_ of any prepossession;--her
_eldest_ daughter she must just mention--she felt it incumbent on her to
hint, was likely to be very soon engaged.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Collins had only to change from Jane to Elizabeth--and it was soon
done--done while Mrs. Bennet was stirring the fire. Elizabeth, equally
next to Jane in birth and beauty, succeeded her of course. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Bennet treasured up the hint, and trusted that she might soon have
two daughters married; and the man whom she could not bear to speak of
the day before, was now high in her good graces. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Lydia’s intention of walking to Meryton was not forgotten: every sister
except Mary agreed to go with her; and Mr. Collins was to attend them,
at the request of Mr. Bennet, who was most anxious to get rid of him,
and have his library to himself; for thither Mr. Collins had followed
him after breakfast, and there he would continue, nominally engaged with
one of the largest folios in the collection, but really talking to Mr.
Bennet, with little cessation, of his house and garden at Hunsford. Such
doings discomposed Mr. Bennet exceedingly. In his library he had been
always sure of leisure and tranquillity; and though prepared, as he told
Elizabeth, to meet with folly and conceit in every other room in the
house, he was used to be free from them there: his civility, therefore,
was most prompt in inviting Mr. Collins to join his daughters in their
walk; and Mr. Collins, being in fact much better fitted for a walker
than a reader, was extremely well pleased to close his large book, and
go. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In pompous nothings on his side, and civil assents on that of his
cousins, their time passed till they entered Meryton. The attention of
the younger ones was then no longer to be gained by _him_. Their eyes
were immediately wandering up the street in quest of the officers, and
nothing less than a very smart bonnet, indeed, or a really new muslin in
a shop window, could recall them. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But the attention of every lady was soon caught by a young man, whom
they had never seen before, of most gentlemanlike appearance, walking
with an officer on the other side of the way. The officer was the very
Mr. Denny concerning whose return from London Lydia came to inquire, and
he bowed as they passed. All were struck with the stranger’s air, all
wondered who he could be; and Kitty and Lydia, determined if possible
to find out, led the way across the street, under pretence of wanting
something in an opposite shop, and fortunately had just gained the
pavement, when the two gentlemen, turning back, had reached the same
spot. Mr. Denny addressed them directly, and entreated permission to
introduce his friend, Mr. Wickham, who had returned with him the day
before from town, and, he was happy to say, had accepted a commission in
their corps. This was exactly as it should be; for the young man wanted
only regimentals to make him completely charming. His appearance was
greatly in his favour: he had all the best parts of beauty, a fine
countenance, a good figure, and very pleasing address. The introduction
was followed up on his side by a happy readiness of conversation--a
readiness at the same time perfectly correct and unassuming; and the
whole party were still standing and talking together very agreeably,
when the sound of horses drew their notice, and Darcy and Bingley were
seen riding down the street. On distinguishing the ladies of the group
the two gentlemen came directly towards them, and began the usual
civilities. Bingley was the principal spokesman, and Miss Bennet the
principal object. He was then, he said, on his way to Longbourn on
purpose to inquire after her. Mr. Darcy corroborated it with a bow, and
was beginning to determine not to fix his eyes on Elizabeth, when they
were suddenly arrested by the sight of the stranger; and Elizabeth
happening to see the countenance of both as they looked at each other,
was all astonishment at the effect of the meeting. Both changed colour,
one looked white, the other red. Mr. Wickham, after a few moments,
touched his hat--a salutation which Mr. Darcy just deigned to return.
What could be the meaning of it? It was impossible to imagine; it was
impossible not to long to know. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In another minute Mr. Bingley, but without seeming to have noticed what
passed, took leave and rode on with his friend. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Denny and Mr. Wickham walked with the young ladies to the door of
Mr. Philips’s house, and then made their bows, in spite of Miss Lydia’s
pressing entreaties that they would come in, and even in spite of Mrs.
Philips’s throwing up the parlour window, and loudly seconding the
invitation. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Philips was always glad to see her nieces; and the two eldest, from
their recent absence, were particularly welcome; and she was eagerly
expressing her surprise at their sudden return home, which, as their own
carriage had not fetched them, she should have known nothing about, if
she had not happened to see Mr. Jones’s shopboy in the street, who had
told her that they were not to send any more draughts to Netherfield,
because the Miss Bennets were come away, when her civility was claimed
towards Mr. Collins by Jane’s introduction of him. She received him with
her very best politeness, which he returned with as much more,
apologizing for his intrusion, without any previous acquaintance with
her, which he could not help flattering himself, however, might be
justified by his relationship to the young ladies who introduced him to
her notice. Mrs. Philips was quite awed by such an excess of good
breeding; but her contemplation of one stranger was soon put an end to
by exclamations and inquiries about the other, of whom, however, she
could only tell her nieces what they already knew, that Mr. Denny had
brought him from London, and that he was to have a lieutenant’s
commission in the ----shire. She had been watching him the last hour,
she said, as he walked up and down the street,--and had Mr. Wickham
appeared, Kitty and Lydia would certainly have continued the occupation;
but unluckily no one passed the windows now except a few of the
officers, who, in comparison with the stranger, were become “stupid,
disagreeable fellows.” Some of them were to dine with the Philipses the
next day, and their aunt promised to make her husband call on Mr.
Wickham, and give him an invitation also, if the family from Longbourn
would come in the evening. This was agreed to; and Mrs. Philips
protested that they would have a nice comfortable noisy game of lottery
tickets, and a little bit of hot supper afterwards. The prospect of such
delights was very cheering, and they parted in mutual good spirits. Mr.
Collins repeated his apologies in quitting the room, and was assured,
with unwearying civility, that they were perfectly needless. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As they walked home, Elizabeth related to Jane what she had seen pass
between the two gentlemen; but though Jane would have defended either or
both, had they appeared to be wrong, she could no more explain such
behaviour than her sister. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Collins on his return highly gratified Mrs. Bennet by admiring Mrs.
Philips’s manners and politeness. He protested that, except Lady
Catherine and her daughter, he had never seen a more elegant woman; for
she had not only received him with the utmost civility, but had even
pointedly included him in her invitation for the next evening, although
utterly unknown to her before. Something, he supposed, might be
attributed to his connection with them, but yet he had never met with so
much attention in the whole course of his life. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As no objection was made to the young people’s engagement with their
aunt, and all Mr. Collins’s scruples of leaving Mr. and Mrs. Bennet for
a single evening during his visit were most steadily resisted, the coach
conveyed him and his five cousins at a suitable hour to Meryton; and the
girls had the pleasure of hearing, as they entered the drawing-room,
that Mr. Wickham had accepted their uncle’s invitation, and was then in
the house. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When this information was given, and they had all taken their seats, Mr.
Collins was at leisure to look around him and admire, and he was so much
struck with the size and furniture of the apartment, that he declared he
might almost have supposed himself in the small summer breakfast parlour
at Rosings; a comparison that did not at first convey much
gratification; but when Mrs. Philips understood from him what Rosings
was, and who was its proprietor, when she had listened to the
description of only one of Lady Catherine’s drawing-rooms, and found
that the chimney-piece alone had cost eight hundred pounds, she felt all
the force of the compliment, and would hardly have resented a comparison
with the housekeeper’s room. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In describing to her all the grandeur of Lady Catherine and her mansion,
with occasional digressions in praise of his own humble abode, and the
improvements it was receiving, he was happily employed until the
gentlemen joined them; and he found in Mrs. Philips a very attentive
listener, whose opinion of his consequence increased with what she
heard, and who was resolving to retail it all among her neighbours as
soon as she could. To the girls, who could not listen to their cousin,
and who had nothing to do but to wish for an instrument, and examine
their own indifferent imitations of china on the mantel-piece, the
interval of waiting appeared very long. It was over at last, however.
The gentlemen did approach: and when Mr. Wickham walked into the room,
Elizabeth felt that she had neither been seeing him before, nor thinking
of him since, with the smallest degree of unreasonable admiration. The
officers of the ----shire were in general a very creditable,
gentlemanlike set and the best of them were of the present party; but
Mr, Wickham was as far beyond them all in person, countenance, air, and
walk, as _they_ were superior to the broad-faced stuffy uncle Philips,
breathing port wine, who followed them into the room. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Wickham was the happy man towards whom almost every female eye was
turned, and Elizabeth was the happy woman by whom he finally seated
himself; and the agreeable manner in which he immediately fell into
conversation, though it was only on its being a wet night, and on the
probability of a rainy season, made her feel that the commonest,
dullest, most threadbare topic might be rendered interesting by the
skill of the speaker. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> With such rivals for the notice of the fair as Mr. Wickham and the
officers, Mr. Collins seemed to sink into insignificance; to the young
ladies he certainly was nothing; but he had still at intervals a kind
listener in Mrs. Philips, and was, by her watchfulness, most abundantly
supplied with coffee and muffin. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I know little of the game at present,” said he, “but I shall be glad to
improve myself; for in my situation of life----” Mrs. Philips was very
thankful for his compliance, but could not wait for his reason. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Wickham did not play at whist, and with ready delight was he
received at the other table between Elizabeth and Lydia. At first there
seemed danger of Lydia’s engrossing him entirely, for she was a most
determined talker; but being likewise extremely fond of lottery tickets,
she soon grew too much interested in the game, too eager in making bets
and exclaiming after prizes, to have attention for anyone in particular.
Allowing for the common demands of the game, Mr. Wickham was therefore
at leisure to talk to Elizabeth, and she was very willing to hear him,
though what she chiefly wished to hear she could not hope to be told,
the history of his acquaintance with Mr. Darcy. She dared not even
mention that gentleman. Her curiosity, however, was unexpectedly
relieved. Mr. Wickham began the subject himself. He inquired how far
Netherfield was from Meryton; and, after receiving her answer, asked in
a hesitating manner how long Mr. Darcy had been staying there. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “About a month,” said Elizabeth; and then, unwilling to let the subject
drop, added, “he is a man of very large property in Derbyshire, I
understand.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes,” replied Wickham; “his estate there is a noble one. A clear ten
thousand per annum. You could not have met with a person more capable of
giving you certain information on that head than myself--for I have been
connected with his family, in a particular manner, from my infancy.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You may well be surprised, Miss Bennet, at such an assertion, after
seeing, as you probably might, the very cold manner of our meeting
yesterday. Are you much acquainted with Mr. Darcy?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “As much as I ever wish to be,” cried Elizabeth, warmly. “I have spent
four days in the same house with him, and I think him very
disagreeable.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have no right to give _my_ opinion,” said Wickham, “as to his being
agreeable or otherwise. I am not qualified to form one. I have known him
too long and too well to be a fair judge. It is impossible for _me_ to
be impartial. But I believe your opinion of him would in general
astonish--and, perhaps, you would not express it quite so strongly
anywhere else. Here you are in your own family.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Upon my word I say no more _here_ than I might say in any house in the
neighbourhood, except Netherfield. He is not at all liked in
Hertfordshire. Everybody is disgusted with his pride. You will not find
him more favourably spoken of by anyone.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I cannot pretend to be sorry,” said Wickham, after a short
interruption, “that he or that any man should not be estimated beyond
their deserts; but with _him_ I believe it does not often happen. The
world is blinded by his fortune and consequence, or frightened by his
high and imposing manners, and sees him only as he chooses to be seen.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I wonder,” said he, at the next opportunity of speaking, “whether he is
likely to be in this country much longer.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I do not at all know; but I _heard_ nothing of his going away when I
was at Netherfield. I hope your plans in favour of the ----shire will
not be affected by his being in the neighbourhood.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh no--it is not for _me_ to be driven away by Mr. Darcy. If _he_
wishes to avoid seeing _me_ he must go. We are not on friendly terms,
and it always gives me pain to meet him, but I have no reason for
avoiding _him_ but what I might proclaim to all the world--a sense of
very great ill-usage, and most painful regrets at his being what he is.
His father, Miss Bennet, the late Mr. Darcy, was one of the best men
that ever breathed, and the truest friend I ever had; and I can never be
in company with this Mr. Darcy without being grieved to the soul by a
thousand tender recollections. His behaviour to myself has been
scandalous; but I verily believe I could forgive him anything and
everything, rather than his disappointing the hopes and disgracing the
memory of his father.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth found the interest of the subject increase, and listened with
all her heart; but the delicacy of it prevented further inquiry. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Wickham began to speak on more general topics, Meryton, the
neighbourhood, the society, appearing highly pleased with all that he
had yet seen, and speaking of the latter, especially, with gentle but
very intelligible gallantry. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It was the prospect of constant society, and good society,” he added,
“which was my chief inducement to enter the ----shire. I know it to be a
most respectable, agreeable corps; and my friend Denny tempted me
further by his account of their present quarters, and the very great
attentions and excellent acquaintance Meryton had procured them.
Society, I own, is necessary to me. I have been a disappointed man, and
my spirits will not bear solitude. I _must_ have employment and society.
A military life is not what I was intended for, but circumstances have
now made it eligible. The church _ought_ to have been my profession--I
was brought up for the church; and I should at this time have been in
possession of a most valuable living, had it pleased the gentleman we
were speaking of just now.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes--the late Mr. Darcy bequeathed me the next presentation of the best
living in his gift. He was my godfather, and excessively attached to me.
I cannot do justice to his kindness. He meant to provide for me amply,
and thought he had done it; but when the living fell, it was given
elsewhere.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Good heavens!” cried Elizabeth; “but how could _that_ be? How could his
will be disregarded? Why did not you seek legal redress?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “There was just such an informality in the terms of the bequest as to
give me no hope from law. A man of honour could not have doubted the
intention, but Mr. Darcy chose to doubt it--or to treat it as a merely
conditional recommendation, and to assert that I had forfeited all claim
to it by extravagance, imprudence, in short, anything or nothing.
Certain it is that the living became vacant two years ago, exactly as I
was of an age to hold it, and that it was given to another man; and no
less certain is it, that I cannot accuse myself of having really done
anything to deserve to lose it. I have a warm unguarded temper, and I
may perhaps have sometimes spoken my opinion _of_ him, and _to_ him, too
freely. I can recall nothing worse. But the fact is, that we are very
different sort of men, and that he hates me.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Some time or other he _will_ be--but it shall not be by _me_. Till I
can forget his father, I can never defy or expose _him_.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But what,” said she, after a pause, “can have been his motive? what can
have induced him to behave so cruelly?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “A thorough, determined dislike of me--a dislike which I cannot but
attribute in some measure to jealousy. Had the late Mr. Darcy liked me
less, his son might have borne with me better; but his father’s uncommon
attachment to me irritated him, I believe, very early in life. He had
not a temper to bear the sort of competition in which we stood--the sort
of preference which was often given me.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I had not thought Mr. Darcy so bad as this--though I have never liked
him, I had not thought so very ill of him--I had supposed him to be
despising his fellow-creatures in general, but did not suspect him of
descending to such malicious revenge, such injustice, such inhumanity as
this!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> After a few minutes’ reflection, however, she continued, “I _do_
remember his boasting one day, at Netherfield, of the implacability of
his resentments, of his having an unforgiving temper. His disposition
must be dreadful.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth was again deep in thought, and after a time exclaimed, “To
treat in such a manner the godson, the friend, the favourite of his
father!” She could have added, “A young man, too, like _you_, whose very
countenance may vouch for your being amiable.” But she contented herself
with--“And one, too, who had probably been his own companion from
childhood, connected together, as I think you said, in the closest
manner.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “We were born in the same parish, within the same park; the greatest
part of our youth was passed together: inmates of the same house,
sharing the same amusements, objects of the same parental care. _My_
father began life in the profession which your uncle, Mr. Philips,
appears to do so much credit to; but he gave up everything to be of use
to the late Mr. Darcy, and devoted all his time to the care of the
Pemberley property. He was most highly esteemed by Mr. Darcy, a most
intimate, confidential friend. Mr. Darcy often acknowledged himself to
be under the greatest obligations to my father’s active superintendence;
and when, immediately before my father’s death, Mr. Darcy gave him a
voluntary promise of providing for me, I am convinced that he felt it
to be as much a debt of gratitude to _him_ as of affection to myself.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “How strange!” cried Elizabeth. “How abominable! I wonder that the very
pride of this Mr. Darcy has not made him just to you. If from no better
motive, that he should not have been too proud to be dishonest,--for
dishonesty I must call it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It _is_ wonderful,” replied Wickham; “for almost all his actions may be
traced to pride; and pride has often been his best friend. It has
connected him nearer with virtue than any other feeling. But we are none
of us consistent; and in his behaviour to me there were stronger
impulses even than pride.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes; it has often led him to be liberal and generous; to give his money
freely, to display hospitality, to assist his tenants, and relieve the
poor. Family pride, and _filial_ pride, for he is very proud of what his
father was, have done this. Not to appear to disgrace his family, to
degenerate from the popular qualities, or lose the influence of the
Pemberley House, is a powerful motive. He has also _brotherly_ pride,
which, with _some_ brotherly affection, makes him a very kind and
careful guardian of his sister; and you will hear him generally cried up
as the most attentive and best of brothers.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He shook his head. “I wish I could call her amiable. It gives me pain to
speak ill of a Darcy; but she is too much like her brother,--very, very
proud. As a child, she was affectionate and pleasing, and extremely fond
of me; and I have devoted hours and hours to her amusement. But she is
nothing to me now. She is a handsome girl, about fifteen or sixteen,
and, I understand, highly accomplished. Since her father’s death her
home has been London, where a lady lives with her, and superintends her
education.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> After many pauses and many trials of other subjects, Elizabeth could not
help reverting once more to the first, and saying,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am astonished at his intimacy with Mr. Bingley. How can Mr. Bingley,
who seems good-humour itself, and is, I really believe, truly amiable,
be in friendship with such a man? How can they suit each other? Do you
know Mr. Bingley?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Probably not; but Mr. Darcy can please where he chooses. He does not
want abilities. He can be a conversible companion if he thinks it worth
his while. Among those who are at all his equals in consequence, he is a
very different man from what he is to the less prosperous. His pride
never deserts him; but with the rich he is liberal-minded, just,
sincere, rational, honourable, and, perhaps, agreeable,--allowing
something for fortune and figure.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The whist party soon afterwards breaking up, the players gathered round
the other table, and Mr. Collins took his station between his cousin
Elizabeth and Mrs. Philips. The usual inquiries as to his success were
made by the latter. It had not been very great; he had lost every point;
but when Mrs. Philips began to express her concern thereupon, he assured
her, with much earnest gravity, that it was not of the least importance;
that he considered the money as a mere trifle, and begged she would not
make herself uneasy. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I know very well, madam,” said he, “that when persons sit down to a
card table they must take their chance of these things,--and happily I
am not in such circumstances as to make five shillings any object. There
are, undoubtedly, many who could not say the same; but, thanks to Lady
Catherine de Bourgh, I am removed far beyond the necessity of regarding
little matters.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Wickham’s attention was caught; and after observing Mr. Collins for
a few moments, he asked Elizabeth in a low voice whether her relations
were very intimately acquainted with the family of De Bourgh. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Lady Catherine de Bourgh,” she replied, “has very lately given him a
living. I hardly know how Mr. Collins was first introduced to her
notice, but he certainly has not known her long.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You know of course that Lady Catherine de Bourgh and Lady Anne Darcy
were sisters; consequently that she is aunt to the present Mr. Darcy.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No, indeed, I did not. I knew nothing at all of Lady Catherine’s
connections. I never heard of her existence till the day before
yesterday.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Her daughter, Miss de Bourgh, will have a very large fortune, and it is
believed that she and her cousin will unite the two estates.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This information made Elizabeth smile, as she thought of poor Miss
Bingley. Vain indeed must be all her attentions, vain and useless her
affection for his sister and her praise of himself, if he were already
self-destined to another. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Mr. Collins,” said she, “speaks highly both of Lady Catherine and her
daughter; but, from some particulars that he has related of her
Ladyship, I suspect his gratitude misleads him; and that, in spite of
her being his patroness, she is an arrogant, conceited woman.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I believe her to be both in a great degree,” replied Wickham; “I have
not seen her for many years; but I very well remember that I never liked
her, and that her manners were dictatorial and insolent. She has the
reputation of being remarkably sensible and clever; but I rather believe
she derives part of her abilities from her rank and fortune, part from
her authoritative manner, and the rest from the pride of her nephew, who
chooses that everyone connected with him should have an understanding of
the first class.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth allowed that he had given a very rational account of it, and
they continued talking together with mutual satisfaction till supper put
an end to cards, and gave the rest of the ladies their share of Mr.
Wickham’s attentions. There could be no conversation in the noise of
Mrs. Philips’s supper party, but his manners recommended him to
everybody. Whatever he said, was said well; and whatever he did, done
gracefully. Elizabeth went away with her head full of him. She could
think of nothing but of Mr. Wickham, and of what he had told her, all
the way home; but there was not time for her even to mention his name as
they went, for neither Lydia nor Mr. Collins were once silent. Lydia
talked incessantly of lottery tickets, of the fish she had lost and the
fish she had won; and Mr. Collins, in describing the civility of Mr. and
Mrs. Philips, protesting that he did not in the least regard his losses
at whist, enumerating all the dishes at supper, and repeatedly fearing
that he crowded his cousins, had more to say than he could well manage
before the carriage stopped at Longbourn House. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth related to Jane, the next day, what had passed between Mr.
Wickham and herself. Jane listened with astonishment and concern: she
knew not how to believe that Mr. Darcy could be so unworthy of Mr.
Bingley’s regard; and yet it was not in her nature to question the
veracity of a young man of such amiable appearance as Wickham. The
possibility of his having really endured such unkindness was enough to
interest all her tender feelings; and nothing therefore remained to be
done but to think well of them both, to defend the conduct of each, and
throw into the account of accident or mistake whatever could not be
otherwise explained. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “They have both,” said she, “been deceived, I dare say, in some way or
other, of which we can form no idea. Interested people have perhaps
misrepresented each to the other. It is, in short, impossible for us to
conjecture the causes or circumstances which may have alienated them,
without actual blame on either side.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Very true, indeed; and now, my dear Jane, what have you got to say in
behalf of the interested people who have probably been concerned in the
business? Do clear _them_, too, or we shall be obliged to think ill of
somebody.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Laugh as much as you choose, but you will not laugh me out of my
opinion. My dearest Lizzy, do but consider in what a disgraceful light
it places Mr. Darcy, to be treating his father’s favourite in such a
manner,--one whom his father had promised to provide for. It is
impossible. No man of common humanity, no man who had any value for his
character, could be capable of it. Can his most intimate friends be so
excessively deceived in him? Oh no.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I can much more easily believe Mr. Bingley’s being imposed on than that
Mr. Wickham should invent such a history of himself as he gave me last
night; names, facts, everything mentioned without ceremony. If it be not
so, let Mr. Darcy contradict it. Besides, there was truth in his looks.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But Jane could think with certainty on only one point,--that Mr.
Bingley, if he _had been_ imposed on, would have much to suffer when
the affair became public. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The two young ladies were summoned from the shrubbery, where this
conversation passed, by the arrival of some of the very persons of whom
they had been speaking; Mr. Bingley and his sisters came to give their
personal invitation for the long expected ball at Netherfield, which was
fixed for the following Tuesday. The two ladies were delighted to see
their dear friend again, called it an age since they had met, and
repeatedly asked what she had been doing with herself since their
separation. To the rest of the family they paid little attention;
avoiding Mrs. Bennet as much as possible, saying not much to Elizabeth,
and nothing at all to the others. They were soon gone again, rising from
their seats with an activity which took their brother by surprise, and
hurrying off as if eager to escape from Mrs. Bennet’s civilities. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The prospect of the Netherfield ball was extremely agreeable to every
female of the family. Mrs. Bennet chose to consider it as given in
compliment to her eldest daughter, and was particularly flattered by
receiving the invitation from Mr. Bingley himself, instead of a
ceremonious card. Jane pictured to herself a happy evening in the
society of her two friends, and the attentions of their brother; and
Elizabeth thought with pleasure of dancing a great deal with Mr.
Wickham, and of seeing a confirmation of everything in Mr. Darcy’s look
and behaviour. The happiness anticipated by Catherine and Lydia depended
less on any single event, or any particular person; for though they
each, like Elizabeth, meant to dance half the evening with Mr. Wickham,
he was by no means the only partner who could satisfy them, and a ball
was, at any rate, a ball. And even Mary could assure her family that she
had no disinclination for it. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “While I can have my mornings to myself,” said she, “it is enough. I
think it is no sacrifice to join occasionally in evening engagements.
Society has claims on us all; and I profess myself one of those who
consider intervals of recreation and amusement as desirable for
everybody.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth’s spirits were so high on the occasion, that though she did
not often speak unnecessarily to Mr. Collins, she could not help asking
him whether he intended to accept Mr. Bingley’s invitation, and if he
did, whether he would think it proper to join in the evening’s
amusement; and she was rather surprised to find that he entertained no
scruple whatever on that head, and was very far from dreading a rebuke,
either from the Archbishop or Lady Catherine de Bourgh, by venturing to
dance. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am by no means of opinion, I assure you,” said he, “that a ball of
this kind, given by a young man of character, to respectable people, can
have any evil tendency; and I am so far from objecting to dancing
myself, that I shall hope to be honoured with the hands of all my fair
cousins in the course of the evening; and I take this opportunity of
soliciting yours, Miss Elizabeth, for the two first dances especially; a
preference which I trust my cousin Jane will attribute to the right
cause, and not to any disrespect for her.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth felt herself completely taken in. She had fully proposed being
engaged by Wickham for those very dances; and to have Mr. Collins
instead!--her liveliness had been never worse timed. There was no help
for it, however. Mr. Wickham’s happiness and her own was perforce
delayed a little longer, and Mr. Collins’s proposal accepted with as
good a grace as she could. She was not the better pleased with his
gallantry, from the idea it suggested of something more. It now first
struck her, that _she_ was selected from among her sisters as worthy of
being the mistress of Hunsford Parsonage, and of assisting to form a
quadrille table at Rosings, in the absence of more eligible visitors.
The idea soon reached to conviction, as she observed his increasing
civilities towards herself, and heard his frequent attempt at a
compliment on her wit and vivacity; and though more astonished than
gratified herself by this effect of her charms, it was not long before
her mother gave her to understand that the probability of their marriage
was exceedingly agreeable to _her_. Elizabeth, however, did not choose
to take the hint, being well aware that a serious dispute must be the
consequence of any reply. Mr. Collins might never make the offer, and,
till he did, it was useless to quarrel about him. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> If there had not been a Netherfield ball to prepare for and talk of, the
younger Miss Bennets would have been in a pitiable state at this time;
for, from the day of the invitation to the day of the ball, there was
such a succession of rain as prevented their walking to Meryton once. No
aunt, no officers, no news could be sought after; the very shoe-roses
for Netherfield were got by proxy. Even Elizabeth might have found some
trial of her patience in weather which totally suspended the improvement
of her acquaintance with Mr. Wickham; and nothing less than a dance on
Tuesday could have made such a Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and Monday
endurable to Kitty and Lydia. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Till Elizabeth entered the drawing-room at Netherfield, and looked in
vain for Mr. Wickham among the cluster of red coats there assembled, a
doubt of his being present had never occurred to her. The certainty of
meeting him had not been checked by any of those recollections that
might not unreasonably have alarmed her. She had dressed with more than
usual care, and prepared in the highest spirits for the conquest of all
that remained unsubdued of his heart, trusting that it was not more than
might be won in the course of the evening. But in an instant arose the
dreadful suspicion of his being purposely omitted, for Mr. Darcy’s
pleasure, in the Bingleys’ invitation to the officers; and though this
was not exactly the case, the absolute fact of his absence was
pronounced by his friend Mr. Denny, to whom Lydia eagerly applied, and
who told them that Wickham had been obliged to go to town on business
the day before, and was not yet returned; adding, with a significant
smile,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I do not imagine his business would have called him away just now, if
he had not wished to avoid a certain gentleman here.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This part of his intelligence, though unheard by Lydia, was caught by
Elizabeth; and, as it assured her that Darcy was not less answerable for
Wickham’s absence than if her first surmise had been just, every feeling
of displeasure against the former was so sharpened by immediate
disappointment, that she could hardly reply with tolerable civility to
the polite inquiries which he directly afterwards approached to make.
Attention, forbearance, patience with Darcy, was injury to Wickham. She
was resolved against any sort of conversation with him, and turned away
with a degree of ill-humour which she could not wholly surmount even in
speaking to Mr. Bingley, whose blind partiality provoked her. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But Elizabeth was not formed for ill-humour; and though every prospect
of her own was destroyed for the evening, it could not dwell long on her
spirits; and, having told all her griefs to Charlotte Lucas, whom she
had not seen for a week, she was soon able to make a voluntary
transition to the oddities of her cousin, and to point him out to her
particular notice. The two first dances, however, brought a return of
distress: they were dances of mortification. Mr. Collins, awkward and
solemn, apologizing instead of attending, and often moving wrong
without being aware of it, gave her all the shame and misery which a
disagreeable partner for a couple of dances can give. The moment of her
release from him was ecstasy. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She danced next with an officer, and had the refreshment of talking of
Wickham, and of hearing that he was universally liked. When those dances
were over, she returned to Charlotte Lucas, and was in conversation with
her, when she found herself suddenly addressed by Mr. Darcy, who took
her so much by surprise in his application for her hand, that, without
knowing what she did, she accepted him. He walked away again
immediately, and she was left to fret over her own want of presence of
mind: Charlotte tried to console her. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Heaven forbid! _That_ would be the greatest misfortune of all! To find
a man agreeable whom one is determined to hate! Do not wish me such an
evil.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When the dancing recommenced, however, and Darcy approached to claim her
hand, Charlotte could not help cautioning her, in a whisper, not to be a
simpleton, and allow her fancy for Wickham to make her appear unpleasant
in the eyes of a man often times his consequence. Elizabeth made no
answer, and took her place in the set, amazed at the dignity to which
she was arrived in being allowed to stand opposite to Mr. Darcy, and
reading in her neighbours’ looks their equal amazement in beholding it.
They stood for some time without speaking a word; and she began to
imagine that their silence was to last through the two dances, and, at
first, was resolved not to break it; till suddenly fancying that it
would be the greater punishment to her partner to oblige him to talk,
she made some slight observation on the dance. He replied, and was again
silent. After a pause of some minutes, she addressed him a second time,
with-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is _your_ turn to say something now, Mr. Darcy. _I_ talked about the
dance, and _you_ ought to make some kind of remark on the size of the
room, or the number of couples.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Very well; that reply will do for the present. Perhaps, by-and-by, I
may observe that private balls are much pleasanter than public ones; but
_now_ we may be silent.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Sometimes. One must speak a little, you know. It would look odd to be
entirely silent for half an hour together; and yet, for the advantage of
_some_, conversation ought to be so arranged as that they may have the
trouble of saying as little as possible.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Both,” replied Elizabeth archly; “for I have always seen a great
similarity in the turn of our minds. We are each of an unsocial,
taciturn disposition, unwilling to speak, unless we expect to say
something that will amaze the whole room, and be handed down to
posterity with all the _éclat_ of a proverb.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This is no very striking resemblance of your own character, I am sure,”
said he. “How near it may be to _mine_, I cannot pretend to say. _You_
think it a faithful portrait, undoubtedly.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He made no answer; and they were again silent till they had gone down
the dance, when he asked her if she and her sisters did not very often
walk to Meryton. She answered in the affirmative; and, unable to resist
the temptation, added, “When you met us there the other day, we had just
been forming a new acquaintance.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The effect was immediate. A deeper shade of _hauteur_ overspread his
features, but he said not a word; and Elizabeth, though blaming herself
for her own weakness, could not go on. At length Darcy spoke, and in a
constrained manner said,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Mr. Wickham is blessed with such happy manners as may insure his
_making_ friends; whether he may be equally capable of _retaining_ them,
is less certain.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He has been so unlucky as to lose your friendship,” replied Elizabeth,
with emphasis, “and in a manner which he is likely to suffer from all
his life.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Darcy made no answer, and seemed desirous of changing the subject. At
that moment Sir William Lucas appeared close to them, meaning to pass
through the set to the other side of the room; but, on perceiving Mr.
Darcy, he stopped, with a bow of superior courtesy, to compliment him on
his dancing and his partner. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have been most highly gratified, indeed, my dear sir; such very
superior dancing is not often seen. It is evident that you belong to the
first circles. Allow me to say, however, that your fair partner does not
disgrace you: and that I must hope to have this pleasure often repeated,
especially when a certain desirable event, my dear Miss Eliza (glancing
at her sister and Bingley), shall take place. What congratulations will
then flow in! I appeal to Mr. Darcy;--but let me not interrupt you, sir.
You will not thank me for detaining you from the bewitching converse of
that young lady, whose bright eyes are also upbraiding me.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The latter part of this address was scarcely heard by Darcy; but Sir
William’s allusion to his friend seemed to strike him forcibly, and his
eyes were directed, with a very serious expression, towards Bingley and
Jane, who were dancing together. Recovering himself, however, shortly,
he turned to his partner, and said,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I do not think we were speaking at all. Sir William could not have
interrupted any two people in the room who had less to say for
themselves. We have tried two or three subjects already without success,
and what we are to talk of next I cannot imagine.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am sorry you think so; but if that be the case, there can at least be
no want of subject. We may compare our different opinions.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, always,” she replied, without knowing what she said; for her
thoughts had wandered far from the subject, as soon afterwards appeared
by her suddenly exclaiming, “I remember hearing you once say, Mr. Darcy,
that you hardly ever forgave;--that your resentment, once created, was
unappeasable. You are very cautious, I suppose, as to its _being
created_?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Merely to the illustration of _your_ character,” said she, endeavouring
to shake off her gravity. “I am trying to make it out.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She shook her head. “I do not get on at all. I hear such different
accounts of you as puzzle me exceedingly.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I can readily believe,” answered he, gravely, “that reports may vary
greatly with respect to me; and I could wish, Miss Bennet, that you were
not to sketch my character at the present moment, as there is reason to
fear that the performance would reflect no credit on either.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I would by no means suspend any pleasure of yours,” he coldly replied.
She said no more, and they went down the other dance and parted in
silence; on each side dissatisfied, though not to an equal degree; for
in Darcy’s breast there was a tolerably powerful feeling towards her,
which soon procured her pardon, and directed all his anger against
another. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> They had not long separated when Miss Bingley came towards her, and,
with an expression of civil disdain, thus accosted her,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “So, Miss Eliza, I hear you are quite delighted with George Wickham?
Your sister has been talking to me about him, and asking me a thousand
questions; and I find that the young man forgot to tell you, among his
other communications, that he was the son of old Wickham, the late Mr.
Darcy’s steward. Let me recommend you, however, as a friend, not to give
implicit confidence to all his assertions; for, as to Mr. Darcy’s using
him ill, it is perfectly false: for, on the contrary, he has been always
remarkably kind to him, though George Wickham has treated Mr. Darcy in a
most infamous manner. I do not know the particulars, but I know very
well that Mr. Darcy is not in the least to blame; that he cannot bear
to hear George Wickham mentioned; and that though my brother thought he
could not well avoid including him in his invitation to the officers, he
was excessively glad to find that he had taken himself out of the way.
His coming into the country at all is a most insolent thing, indeed, and
I wonder how he could presume to do it. I pity you, Miss Eliza, for this
discovery of your favourite’s guilt; but really, considering his
descent, one could not expect much better.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “His guilt and his descent appear, by your account, to be the same,”
said Elizabeth, angrily; “for I have heard you accuse him of nothing
worse than of being the son of Mr. Darcy’s steward, and of _that_, I can
assure you, he informed me himself.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Insolent girl!” said Elizabeth to herself. “You are much mistaken if
you expect to influence me by such a paltry attack as this. I see
nothing in it but your own wilful ignorance and the malice of Mr.
Darcy.” She then sought her eldest sister, who had undertaken to make
inquiries on the same subject of Bingley. Jane met her with a smile of
such sweet complacency, a glow of such happy expression, as sufficiently
marked how well she was satisfied with the occurrences of the evening.
Elizabeth instantly read her feelings; and, at that moment, solicitude
for Wickham, resentment against his enemies, and everything else, gave
way before the hope of Jane’s being in the fairest way for happiness. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I want to know,” said she, with a countenance no less smiling than her
sister’s, “what you have learnt about Mr. Wickham. But perhaps you have
been too pleasantly engaged to think of any third person, in which case
you may be sure of my pardon.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No,” replied Jane, “I have not forgotten him; but I have nothing
satisfactory to tell you. Mr. Bingley does not know the whole of his
history, and is quite ignorant of the circumstances which have
principally offended Mr. Darcy; but he will vouch for the good conduct,
the probity and honour, of his friend, and is perfectly convinced that
Mr. Wickham has deserved much less attention from Mr. Darcy than he has
received; and I am sorry to say that by his account, as well as his
sister’s, Mr. Wickham is by no means a respectable young man. I am
afraid he has been very imprudent, and has deserved to lose Mr. Darcy’s
regard.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This account then is what he has received from Mr. Darcy. I am
perfectly satisfied. But what does he say of the living?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He does not exactly recollect the circumstances, though he has heard
them from Mr. Darcy more than once, but he believes that it was left to
him _conditionally_ only.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have not a doubt of Mr. Bingley’s sincerity,” said Elizabeth warmly,
“but you must excuse my not being convinced by assurances only. Mr.
Bingley’s defence of his friend was a very able one, I dare say; but
since he is unacquainted with several parts of the story, and has learnt
the rest from that friend himself, I shall venture still to think of
both gentlemen as I did before.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She then changed the discourse to one more gratifying to each, and on
which there could be no difference of sentiment. Elizabeth listened with
delight to the happy though modest hopes which Jane entertained of
Bingley’s regard, and said all in her power to heighten her confidence
in it. On their being joined by Mr. Bingley himself, Elizabeth withdrew
to Miss Lucas; to whose inquiry after the pleasantness of her last
partner she had scarcely replied, before Mr. Collins came up to them,
and told her with great exultation, that he had just been so fortunate
as to make a most important discovery. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have found out,” said he, “by a singular accident, that there is now
in the room a near relation to my patroness. I happened to overhear the
gentleman himself mentioning to the young lady who does the honours of
this house the names of his cousin Miss De Bourgh, and of her mother,
Lady Catherine. How wonderfully these sort of things occur! Who would
have thought of my meeting with--perhaps--a nephew of Lady Catherine de
Bourgh in this assembly! I am most thankful that the discovery is made
in time for me to pay my respects to him, which I am now going to do,
and trust he will excuse my not having done it before. My total
ignorance of the connection must plead my apology.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Indeed I am. I shall entreat his pardon for not having done it earlier.
I believe him to be Lady Catherine’s _nephew_. It will be in my power to
assure him that her Ladyship was quite well yesterday se’nnight.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth tried hard to dissuade him from such a scheme; assuring him
that Mr. Darcy would consider his addressing him without introduction as
an impertinent freedom, rather than a compliment to his aunt; that it
was not in the least necessary there should be any notice on either
side, and that if it were, it must belong to Mr. Darcy, the superior in
consequence, to begin the acquaintance. Mr. Collins listened to her with
the determined air of following his own inclination, and when she ceased
speaking, replied thus,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My dear Miss Elizabeth, I have the highest opinion in the world of your
excellent judgment in all matters within the scope of your
understanding, but permit me to say that there must be a wide difference
between the established forms of ceremony amongst the laity and those
which regulate the clergy; for, give me leave to observe that I consider
the clerical office as equal in point of dignity with the highest rank
in the kingdom--provided that a proper humility of behaviour is at the
same time maintained. You must, therefore, allow me to follow the
dictates of my conscience on this occasion, which lead me to perform
what I look on as a point of duty. Pardon me for neglecting to profit by
your advice, which on every other subject shall be my constant guide,
though in the case before us I consider myself more fitted by education
and habitual study to decide on what is right than a young lady like
yourself;” and with a low bow he left her to attack Mr. Darcy, whose
reception of his advances she eagerly watched, and whose astonishment at
being so addressed was very evident. Her cousin prefaced his speech with
a solemn bow, and though she could not hear a word of it, she felt as if
hearing it all, and saw in the motion of his lips the words “apology,”
“Hunsford,” and “Lady Catherine de Bourgh.” It vexed her to see him
expose himself to such a man. Mr. Darcy was eyeing him with
unrestrained wonder; and when at last Mr. Collins allowed him to speak,
replied with an air of distant civility. Mr. Collins, however, was not
discouraged from speaking again, and Mr. Darcy’s contempt seemed
abundantly increasing with the length of his second speech; and at the
end of it he only made him a slight bow, and moved another way: Mr.
Collins then returned to Elizabeth. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have no reason, I assure you,” said he, “to be dissatisfied with my
reception. Mr. Darcy seemed much pleased with the attention. He answered
me with the utmost civility, and even paid me the compliment of saying,
that he was so well convinced of Lady Catherine’s discernment as to be
certain she could never bestow a favour unworthily. It was really a very
handsome thought. Upon the whole, I am much pleased with him.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As Elizabeth had no longer any interest of her own to pursue, she turned
her attention almost entirely on her sister and Mr. Bingley; and the
train of agreeable reflections which her observations gave birth to made
her perhaps almost as happy as Jane. She saw her in idea settled in that
very house, in all the felicity which a marriage of true affection could
bestow; and she felt capable, under such circumstances, of endeavouring
even to like Bingley’s two sisters. Her mother’s thoughts she plainly
saw were bent the same way, and she determined not to venture near her,
lest she might hear too much. When they sat down to supper, therefore,
she considered it a most unlucky perverseness which placed them within
one of each other; and deeply was she vexed to find that her mother was
talking to that one person (Lady Lucas) freely, openly, and of nothing
else but of her expectation that Jane would be soon married to Mr.
Bingley. It was an animating subject, and Mrs. Bennet seemed incapable
of fatigue while enumerating the advantages of the match. His being such
a charming young man, and so rich, and living but three miles from them,
were the first points of self-gratulation; and then it was such a
comfort to think how fond the two sisters were of Jane, and to be
certain that they must desire the connection as much as she could do. It
was, moreover, such a promising thing for her younger daughters, as
Jane’s marrying so greatly must throw them in the way of other rich men;
and, lastly, it was so pleasant at her time of life to be able to
consign her single daughters to the care of their sister, that she might
not be obliged to go into company more than she liked. It was necessary
to make this circumstance a matter of pleasure, because on such
occasions it is the etiquette; but no one was less likely than Mrs.
Bennet to find comfort in staying at home at any period of her life. She
concluded with many good wishes that Lady Lucas might soon be equally
fortunate, though evidently and triumphantly believing there was no
chance of it. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In vain did Elizabeth endeavour to check the rapidity of her mother’s
words, or persuade her to describe her felicity in a less audible
whisper; for to her inexpressible vexation she could perceive that the
chief of it was overheard by Mr. Darcy, who sat opposite to them. Her
mother only scolded her for being nonsensical. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “What is Mr. Darcy to me, pray, that I should be afraid of him? I am
sure we owe him no such particular civility as to be obliged to say
nothing _he_ may not like to hear.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “For heaven’s sake, madam, speak lower. What advantage can it be to you
to offend Mr. Darcy? You will never recommend yourself to his friend by
so doing.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Nothing that she could say, however, had any influence. Her mother would
talk of her views in the same intelligible tone. Elizabeth blushed and
blushed again with shame and vexation. She could not help frequently
glancing her eye at Mr. Darcy, though every glance convinced her of what
she dreaded; for though he was not always looking at her mother, she was
convinced that his attention was invariably fixed by her. The expression
of his face changed gradually from indignant contempt to a composed and
steady gravity. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> At length, however, Mrs. Bennet had no more to say; and Lady Lucas, who
had been long yawning at the repetition of delights which she saw no
likelihood of sharing, was left to the comforts of cold ham and chicken.
Elizabeth now began to revive. But not long was the interval of
tranquillity; for when supper was over, singing was talked of, and she
had the mortification of seeing Mary, after very little entreaty,
preparing to oblige the company. By many significant looks and silent
entreaties did she endeavour to prevent such a proof of
complaisance,--but in vain; Mary would not understand them; such an
opportunity of exhibiting was delightful to her, and she began her song.
Elizabeth’s eyes were fixed on her, with most painful sensations; and
she watched her progress through the several stanzas with an impatience
which was very ill rewarded at their close; for Mary, on receiving
amongst the thanks of the table the hint of a hope that she might be
prevailed on to favour them again, after the pause of half a minute
began another. Mary’s powers were by no means fitted for such a display;
her voice was weak, and her manner affected. Elizabeth was in agonies.
She looked at Jane to see how she bore it; but Jane was very composedly
talking to Bingley. She looked at his two sisters, and saw them making
signs of derision at each other, and at Darcy, who continued, however,
impenetrably grave. She looked at her father to entreat his
interference, lest Mary should be singing all night. He took the hint,
and, when Mary had finished her second song, said aloud,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That will do extremely well, child. You have delighted us long enough.
Let the other young ladies have time to exhibit.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mary, though pretending not to hear, was somewhat disconcerted; and
Elizabeth, sorry for her, and sorry for her father’s speech, was afraid
her anxiety had done no good. Others of the party were now applied to. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If I,” said Mr. Collins, “were so fortunate as to be able to sing, I
should have great pleasure, I am sure, in obliging the company with an
air; for I consider music as a very innocent diversion, and perfectly
compatible with the profession of a clergyman. I do not mean, however,
to assert that we can be justified in devoting too much of our time to
music, for there are certainly other things to be attended to. The
rector of a parish has much to do. In the first place, he must make such
an agreement for tithes as may be beneficial to himself and not
offensive to his patron. He must write his own sermons; and the time
that remains will not be too much for his parish duties, and the care
and improvement of his dwelling, which he cannot be excused from making
as comfortable as possible. And I do not think it of light importance
that he should have attentive and conciliatory manners towards
everybody, especially towards those to whom he owes his preferment. I
cannot acquit him of that duty; nor could I think well of the man who
should omit an occasion of testifying his respect towards anybody
connected with the family.” And with a bow to Mr. Darcy, he concluded
his speech, which had been spoken so loud as to be heard by half the
room. Many stared--many smiled; but no one looked more amused than Mr.
Bennet himself, while his wife seriously commended Mr. Collins for
having spoken so sensibly, and observed, in a half-whisper to Lady
Lucas, that he was a remarkably clever, good kind of young man. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> To Elizabeth it appeared, that had her family made an agreement to
expose themselves as much as they could during the evening, it would
have been impossible for them to play their parts with more spirit, or
finer success; and happy did she think it for Bingley and her sister
that some of the exhibition had escaped his notice, and that his
feelings were not of a sort to be much distressed by the folly which he
must have witnessed. That his two sisters and Mr. Darcy, however, should
have such an opportunity of ridiculing her relations was bad enough; and
she could not determine whether the silent contempt of the gentleman, or
the insolent smiles of the ladies, were more intolerable. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The rest of the evening brought her little amusement. She was teased by
Mr. Collins, who continued most perseveringly by her side; and though he
could not prevail with her to dance with him again, put it out of her
power to dance with others. In vain did she entreat him to stand up with
somebody else, and offered to introduce him to any young lady in the
room. He assured her that, as to dancing, he was perfectly indifferent
to it; that his chief object was, by delicate attentions, to recommend
himself to her; and that he should therefore make a point of remaining
close to her the whole evening. There was no arguing upon such a
project. She owed her greatest relief to her friend Miss Lucas, who
often joined them, and good-naturedly engaged Mr. Collins’s conversation
to herself. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She was at least free from the offence of Mr. Darcy’s further notice:
though often standing within a very short distance of her, quite
disengaged, he never came near enough to speak. She felt it to be the
probable consequence of her allusions to Mr. Wickham, and rejoiced in
it. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Longbourn party were the last of all the company to depart; and by a
manœuvre of Mrs. Bennet had to wait for their carriage a quarter of an
hour after everybody else was gone, which gave them time to see how
heartily they were wished away by some of the family. Mrs. Hurst and her
sister scarcely opened their mouths except to complain of fatigue, and
were evidently impatient to have the house to themselves. They repulsed
every attempt of Mrs. Bennet at conversation, and, by so doing, threw a
languor over the whole party, which was very little relieved by the long
speeches of Mr. Collins, who was complimenting Mr. Bingley and his
sisters on the elegance of their entertainment, and the hospitality and
politeness which had marked their behaviour to their guests. Darcy said
nothing at all. Mr. Bennet, in equal silence, was enjoying the scene.
Mr. Bingley and Jane were standing together a little detached from the
rest, and talked only to each other. Elizabeth preserved as steady a
silence as either Mrs. Hurst or Miss Bingley; and even Lydia was too
much fatigued to utter more than the occasional exclamation of “Lord,
how tired I am!” accompanied by a violent yawn. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When at length they arose to take leave, Mrs. Bennet was most pressingly
civil in her hope of seeing the whole family soon at Longbourn; and
addressed herself particularly to Mr. Bingley, to assure him how happy
he would make them, by eating a family dinner with them at any time,
without the ceremony of a formal invitation. Bingley was all grateful
pleasure; and he readily engaged for taking the earliest opportunity of
waiting on her after his return from London, whither he was obliged to
go the next day for a short time. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Bennet was perfectly satisfied; and quitted the house under the
delightful persuasion that, allowing for the necessary preparations of
settlements, new carriages, and wedding clothes, she should undoubtedly
see her daughter settled at Netherfield in the course of three or four
months. Of having another daughter married to Mr. Collins she thought
with equal certainty, and with considerable, though not equal, pleasure.
Elizabeth was the least dear to her of all her children; and though the
man and the match were quite good enough for _her_, the worth of each
was eclipsed by Mr. Bingley and Netherfield. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The next day opened a new scene at Longbourn. Mr. Collins made his
declaration in form. Having resolved to do it without loss of time, as
his leave of absence extended only to the following Saturday, and having
no feelings of diffidence to make it distressing to himself even at the
moment, he set about it in a very orderly manner, with all the
observances which he supposed a regular part of the business. On finding
Mrs. Bennet, Elizabeth, and one of the younger girls together, soon
after breakfast, he addressed the mother in these words,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “May I hope, madam, for your interest with your fair daughter Elizabeth,
when I solicit for the honour of a private audience with her in the
course of this morning?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh dear! Yes, certainly. I am sure Lizzy will be very happy--I am sure
she can have no objection. Come, Kitty, I want you upstairs.” And
gathering her work together, she was hastening away, when Elizabeth
called out,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Dear ma’am, do not go. I beg you will not go. Mr. Collins must excuse
me. He can have nothing to say to me that anybody need not hear. I am
going away myself.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No, no, nonsense, Lizzy. I desire you will stay where you are.” And
upon Elizabeth’s seeming really, with vexed and embarrassed looks, about
to escape, she added, “Lizzy, I _insist_ upon your staying and hearing
Mr. Collins.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth would not oppose such an injunction; and a moment’s
consideration making her also sensible that it would be wisest to get it
over as soon and as quietly as possible, she sat down again, and tried
to conceal, by incessant employment, the feelings which were divided
between distress and diversion. Mrs. Bennet and Kitty walked off, and as
soon as they were gone, Mr. Collins began,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Believe me, my dear Miss Elizabeth, that your modesty, so far from
doing you any disservice, rather adds to your other perfections. You
would have been less amiable in my eyes had there _not_ been this little
unwillingness; but allow me to assure you that I have your respected
mother’s permission for this address. You can hardly doubt the purport
of my discourse, however your natural delicacy may lead you to
dissemble; my attentions have been too marked to be mistaken. Almost as
soon as I entered the house I singled you out as the companion of my
future life. But before I am run away with by my feelings on this
subject, perhaps it will be advisable for me to state my reasons for
marrying--and, moreover, for coming into Hertfordshire with the design
of selecting a wife, as I certainly did.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The idea of Mr. Collins, with all his solemn composure, being run away
with by his feelings, made Elizabeth so near laughing that she could not
use the short pause he allowed in any attempt to stop him farther, and
he continued,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My reasons for marrying are, first, that I think it a right thing for
every clergyman in easy circumstances (like myself) to set the example
of matrimony in his parish; secondly, that I am convinced it will add
very greatly to my happiness; and, thirdly, which perhaps I ought to
have mentioned earlier, that it is the particular advice and
recommendation of the very noble lady whom I have the honour of calling
patroness. Twice has she condescended to give me her opinion (unasked
too!) on this subject; and it was but the very Saturday night before I
left Hunsford,--between our pools at quadrille, while Mrs. Jenkinson was
arranging Miss De Bourgh’s footstool,--that she said, ‘Mr. Collins, you
must marry. A clergyman like you must marry. Choose properly, choose a
gentlewoman for _my_ sake, and for your _own_; let her be an active,
useful sort of person, not brought up high, but able to make a small
income go a good way. This is my advice. Find such a woman as soon as
you can, bring her to Hunsford, and I will visit her.’ Allow me, by the
way, to observe, my fair cousin, that I do not reckon the notice and
kindness of Lady Catherine de Bourgh as among the least of the
advantages in my power to offer. You will find her manners beyond
anything I can describe; and your wit and vivacity, I think, must be
acceptable to her, especially when tempered with the silence and respect
which her rank will inevitably excite. Thus much for my general
intention in favour of matrimony; it remains to be told why my views
were directed to Longbourn instead of my own neighbourhood, where I
assure you there are many amiable young women. But the fact is, that
being, as I am, to inherit this estate after the death of your honoured
father (who, however, may live many years longer), I could not satisfy
myself without resolving to choose a wife from among his daughters, that
the loss to them might be as little as possible when the melancholy
event takes place--which, however, as I have already said, may not be
for several years. This has been my motive, my fair cousin, and I
flatter myself it will not sink me in your esteem. And now nothing
remains for me but to assure you in the most animated language of the
violence of my affection. To fortune I am perfectly indifferent, and
shall make no demand of that nature on your father, since I am well
aware that it could not be complied with; and that one thousand pounds
in the 4 per cents., which will not be yours till after your mother’s
decease, is all that you may ever be entitled to. On that head,
therefore, I shall be uniformly silent: and you may assure yourself that
no ungenerous reproach shall ever pass my lips when we are married.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You are too hasty, sir,” she cried. “You forget that I have made no
answer. Let me do it without further loss of time. Accept my thanks for
the compliment you are paying me. I am very sensible of the honour of
your proposals, but it is impossible for me to do otherwise than decline
them.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am not now to learn,” replied Mr. Collins, with a formal wave of the
hand, “that it is usual with young ladies to reject the addresses of the
man whom they secretly mean to accept, when he first applies for their
favour; and that sometimes the refusal is repeated a second or even a
third time. I am, therefore, by no means discouraged by what you have
just said, and shall hope to lead you to the altar ere long.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Upon my word, sir,” cried Elizabeth, “your hope is rather an
extraordinary one after my declaration. I do assure you that I am not
one of those young ladies (if such young ladies there are) who are so
daring as to risk their happiness on the chance of being asked a second
time. I am perfectly serious in my refusal. You could not make _me_
happy, and I am convinced that I am the last woman in the world who
would make _you_ so. Nay, were your friend Lady Catherine to know me, I
am persuaded she would find me in every respect ill qualified for the
situation.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Were it certain that Lady Catherine would think so,” said Mr. Collins,
very gravely--“but I cannot imagine that her Ladyship would at all
disapprove of you. And you may be certain that when I have the honour of
seeing her again I shall speak in the highest terms of your modesty,
economy, and other amiable qualifications.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Indeed, Mr. Collins, all praise of me will be unnecessary. You must
give me leave to judge for myself, and pay me the compliment of
believing what I say. I wish you very happy and very rich, and by
refusing your hand, do all in my power to prevent your being otherwise.
In making me the offer, you must have satisfied the delicacy of your
feelings with regard to my family, and may take possession of Longbourn
estate whenever it falls, without any self-reproach. This matter may be
considered, therefore, as finally settled.” And rising as she thus
spoke, she would have quitted the room, had not Mr. Collins thus
addressed her,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “When I do myself the honour of speaking to you next on the subject, I
shall hope to receive a more favourable answer than you have now given
me; though I am far from accusing you of cruelty at present, because I
know it to be the established custom of your sex to reject a man on the
first application, and, perhaps, you have even now said as much to
encourage my suit as would be consistent with the true delicacy of the
female character.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Really, Mr. Collins,” cried Elizabeth, with some warmth, “you puzzle me
exceedingly. If what I have hitherto said can appear to you in the form
of encouragement, I know not how to express my refusal in such a way as
may convince you of its being one.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You must give me leave to flatter myself, my dear cousin, that your
refusal of my addresses are merely words of course. My reasons for
believing it are briefly these:--It does not appear to me that my hand
is unworthy of your acceptance, or that the establishment I can offer
would be any other than highly desirable. My situation in life, my
connections with the family of De Bourgh, and my relationship to your
own, are circumstances highly in my favour; and you should take it into
further consideration that, in spite of your manifold attractions, it is
by no means certain that another offer of marriage may ever be made you.
Your portion is unhappily so small, that it will in all likelihood undo
the effects of your loveliness and amiable qualifications. As I must,
therefore, conclude that you are not serious in your rejection of me, I
shall choose to attribute it to your wish of increasing my love by
suspense, according to the usual practice of elegant females.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I do assure you, sir, that I have no pretensions whatever to that kind
of elegance which consists in tormenting a respectable man. I would
rather be paid the compliment of being believed sincere. I thank you
again and again for the honour you have done me in your proposals, but
to accept them is absolutely impossible. My feelings in every respect
forbid it. Can I speak plainer? Do not consider me now as an elegant
female intending to plague you, but as a rational creature speaking the
truth from her heart.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You are uniformly charming!” cried he, with an air of awkward
gallantry; “and I am persuaded that, when sanctioned by the express
authority of both your excellent parents, my proposals will not fail of
being acceptable.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> To such perseverance in wilful self-deception Elizabeth would make no
reply, and immediately and in silence withdrew; determined, that if he
persisted in considering her repeated refusals as flattering
encouragement, to apply to her father, whose negative might be uttered
in such a manner as must be decisive, and whose behaviour at least could
not be mistaken for the affectation and coquetry of an elegant female. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Collins was not left long to the silent contemplation of his
successful love; for Mrs. Bennet, having dawdled about in the vestibule
to watch for the end of the conference, no sooner saw Elizabeth open the
door and with quick step pass her towards the staircase, than she
entered the breakfast-room, and congratulated both him and herself in
warm terms on the happy prospect of their nearer connection. Mr. Collins
received and returned these felicitations with equal pleasure, and then
proceeded to relate the particulars of their interview, with the result
of which he trusted he had every reason to be satisfied, since the
refusal which his cousin had steadfastly given him would naturally flow
from her bashful modesty and the genuine delicacy of her character. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This information, however, startled Mrs. Bennet: she would have been
glad to be equally satisfied that her daughter had meant to encourage
him by protesting against his proposals, but she dared not believe it,
and could not help saying so. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But depend upon it, Mr. Collins,” she added, “that Lizzy shall be
brought to reason. I will speak to her about it myself directly. She is
a very headstrong, foolish girl, and does not know her own interest; but
I will _make_ her know it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Pardon me for interrupting you, madam,” cried Mr. Collins; “but if she
is really headstrong and foolish, I know not whether she would
altogether be a very desirable wife to a man in my situation, who
naturally looks for happiness in the marriage state. If, therefore, she
actually persists in rejecting my suit, perhaps it were better not to
force her into accepting me, because, if liable to such defects of
temper, she could not contribute much to my felicity.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Sir, you quite misunderstand me,” said Mrs. Bennet, alarmed. “Lizzy is
only headstrong in such matters as these. In everything else she is as
good-natured a girl as ever lived. I will go directly to Mr. Bennet, and
we shall very soon settle it with her, I am sure.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She would not give him time to reply, but hurrying instantly to her
husband, called out, as she entered the library,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, Mr. Bennet, you are wanted immediately; we are all in an uproar.
You must come and make Lizzy marry Mr. Collins, for she vows she will
not have him; and if you do not make haste he will change his mind and
not have _her_.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Bennet raised his eyes from his book as she entered, and fixed them
on her face with a calm unconcern, which was not in the least altered by
her communication. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have not the pleasure of understanding you,” said he, when she had
finished her speech. “Of what are you talking?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Of Mr. Collins and Lizzy. Lizzy declares she will not have Mr. Collins,
and Mr. Collins begins to say that he will not have Lizzy.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Come here, child,” cried her father as she appeared. “I have sent for
you on an affair of importance. I understand that Mr. Collins has made
you an offer of marriage. Is it true?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Very well. We now come to the point. Your mother insists upon your
accepting it. Is it not so, Mrs. Bennet?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “An unhappy alternative is before you, Elizabeth. From this day you must
be a stranger to one of your parents. Your mother will never see you
again if you do _not_ marry Mr. Collins, and I will never see you again
if you _do_.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth could not but smile at such a conclusion of such a beginning;
but Mrs. Bennet, who had persuaded herself that her husband regarded the
affair as she wished, was excessively disappointed. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My dear,” replied her husband, “I have two small favours to request.
First, that you will allow me the free use of my understanding on the
present occasion; and, secondly, of my room. I shall be glad to have the
library to myself as soon as may be.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Not yet, however, in spite of her disappointment in her husband, did
Mrs. Bennet give up the point. She talked to Elizabeth again and again;
coaxed and threatened her by turns. She endeavoured to secure Jane in
her interest, but Jane, with all possible mildness, declined
interfering; and Elizabeth, sometimes with real earnestness, and
sometimes with playful gaiety, replied to her attacks. Though her manner
varied, however, her determination never did. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Collins, meanwhile, was meditating in solitude on what had passed.
He thought too well of himself to comprehend on what motive his cousin
could refuse him; and though his pride was hurt, he suffered in no other
way. His regard for her was quite imaginary; and the possibility of her
deserving her mother’s reproach prevented his feeling any regret. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> While the family were in this confusion, Charlotte Lucas came to spend
the day with them. She was met in the vestibule by Lydia, who, flying to
her, cried in a half whisper, “I am glad you are come, for there is such
fun here! What do you think has happened this morning? Mr. Collins has
made an offer to Lizzy, and she will not have him.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Charlotte had hardly time to answer before they were joined by Kitty,
who came to tell the same news; and no sooner had they entered the
breakfast-room, where Mrs. Bennet was alone, than she likewise began on
the subject, calling on Miss Lucas for her compassion, and entreating
her to persuade her friend Lizzy to comply with the wishes of her
family. “Pray do, my dear Miss Lucas,” she added, in a melancholy tone;
“for nobody is on my side, nobody takes part with me; I am cruelly used,
nobody feels for my poor nerves.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Ay, there she comes,” continued Mrs. Bennet, “looking as unconcerned as
may be, and caring no more for us than if we were at York, provided she
can have her own way. But I tell you what, Miss Lizzy, if you take it
into your head to go on refusing every offer of marriage in this way,
you will never get a husband at all--and I am sure I do not know who is
to maintain you when your father is dead. _I_ shall not be able to keep
you--and so I warn you. I have done with you from this very day. I told
you in the library, you know, that I should never speak to you again,
and you will find me as good as my word. I have no pleasure in talking
to undutiful children. Not that I have much pleasure, indeed, in talking
to anybody. People who suffer as I do from nervous complaints can have
no great inclination for talking. Nobody can tell what I suffer! But it
is always so. Those who do not complain are never pitied.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Her daughters listened in silence to this effusion, sensible that any
attempt to reason with or soothe her would only increase the irritation.
She talked on, therefore, without interruption from any of them till
they were joined by Mr. Collins, who entered with an air more stately
than usual, and on perceiving whom, she said to the girls,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Now, I do insist upon it, that you, all of you, hold your tongues, and
let Mr. Collins and me have a little conversation together.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth passed quietly out of the room, Jane and Kitty followed, but
Lydia stood her ground, determined to hear all she could; and Charlotte,
detained first by the civility of Mr. Collins, whose inquiries after
herself and all her family were very minute, and then by a little
curiosity, satisfied herself with walking to the window and pretending
not to hear. In a doleful voice Mrs. Bennet thus began the projected
conversation:-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My dear madam,” replied he, “let us be for ever silent on this point.
Far be it from me,” he presently continued, in a voice that marked his
displeasure, “to resent the behaviour of your daughter. Resignation to
inevitable evils is the duty of us all: the peculiar duty of a young man
who has been so fortunate as I have been, in early preferment; and, I
trust, I am resigned. Perhaps not the less so from feeling a doubt of my
positive happiness had my fair cousin honoured me with her hand; for I
have often observed, that resignation is never so perfect as when the
blessing denied begins to lose somewhat of its value in our estimation.
You will not, I hope, consider me as showing any disrespect to your
family, my dear madam, by thus withdrawing my pretensions to your
daughter’s favour, without having paid yourself and Mr. Bennet the
compliment of requesting you to interpose your authority in my behalf.
My conduct may, I fear, be objectionable in having accepted my
dismission from your daughter’s lips instead of your own; but we are all
liable to error. I have certainly meant well through the whole affair.
My object has been to secure an amiable companion for myself, with due
consideration for the advantage of all your family; and if my _manner_
has been at all reprehensible, I here beg leave to apologize.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The discussion of Mr. Collins’s offer was now nearly at an end, and
Elizabeth had only to suffer from the uncomfortable feelings necessarily
attending it, and occasionally from some peevish allusion of her mother.
As for the gentleman himself, _his_ feelings were chiefly expressed, not
by embarrassment or dejection, or by trying to avoid her, but by
stiffness of manner and resentful silence. He scarcely ever spoke to
her; and the assiduous attentions which he had been so sensible of
himself were transferred for the rest of the day to Miss Lucas, whose
civility in listening to him was a seasonable relief to them all, and
especially to her friend. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The morrow produced no abatement of Mrs. Bennet’s ill humour or ill
health. Mr. Collins was also in the same state of angry pride. Elizabeth
had hoped that his resentment might shorten his visit, but his plan did
not appear in the least affected by it. He was always to have gone on
Saturday, and to Saturday he still meant to stay. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> After breakfast, the girls walked to Meryton, to inquire if Mr. Wickham
were returned, and to lament over his absence from the Netherfield ball.
He joined them on their entering the town, and attended them to their
aunt’s, where his regret and vexation and the concern of everybody were
well talked over. To Elizabeth, however, he voluntarily acknowledged
that the necessity of his absence _had_ been self-imposed. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I found,” said he, “as the time drew near, that I had better not meet
Mr. Darcy;--that to be in the same room, the same party with him for so
many hours together, might be more than I could bear, and that scenes
might arise unpleasant to more than myself.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She highly approved his forbearance; and they had leisure for a full
discussion of it, and for all the commendations which they civilly
bestowed on each other, as Wickham and another officer walked back with
them to Longbourn, and during the walk he particularly attended to her.
His accompanying them was a double advantage: she felt all the
compliment it offered to herself; and it was most acceptable as an
occasion of introducing him to her father and mother. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Soon after their return, a letter was delivered to Miss Bennet; it came
from Netherfield, and was opened immediately. The envelope contained a
sheet of elegant, little, hot-pressed paper, well covered with a lady’s
fair, flowing hand; and Elizabeth saw her sister’s countenance change as
she read it, and saw her dwelling intently on some particular passages.
Jane recollected herself soon; and putting the letter away, tried to
join, with her usual cheerfulness, in the general conversation: but
Elizabeth felt an anxiety on the subject which drew off her attention
even from Wickham; and no sooner had he and his companion taken leave,
than a glance from Jane invited her to follow her upstairs. When they
had gained their own room, Jane, taking out her letter, said, “This is
from Caroline Bingley: what it contains has surprised me a good deal.
The whole party have left Netherfield by this time, and are on their way
to town; and without any intention of coming back again. You shall hear
what she says.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She then read the first sentence aloud, which comprised the information
of their having just resolved to follow their brother to town directly,
and of their meaning to dine that day in Grosvenor Street, where Mr.
Hurst had a house. The next was in these words:--“‘I do not pretend to
regret anything I shall leave in Hertfordshire except your society, my
dearest friend; but we will hope, at some future period, to enjoy many
returns of that delightful intercourse we have known, and in the
meanwhile may lessen the pain of separation by a very frequent and most
unreserved correspondence. I depend on you for that.’” To these
high-flown expressions Elizabeth listened with all the insensibility of
distrust; and though the suddenness of their removal surprised her, she
saw nothing in it really to lament: it was not to be supposed that their
absence from Netherfield would prevent Mr. Bingley’s being there; and as
to the loss of their society, she was persuaded that Jane must soon
cease to regard it in the enjoyment of his. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is unlucky,” said she, after a short pause, “that you should not be
able to see your friends before they leave the country. But may we not
hope that the period of future happiness, to which Miss Bingley looks
forward, may arrive earlier than she is aware, and that the delightful
intercourse you have known as friends will be renewed with yet greater
satisfaction as sisters? Mr. Bingley will not be detained in London by
them.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘When my brother left us yesterday, he imagined that the business which
took him to London might be concluded in three or four days; but as we
are certain it cannot be so, and at the same time convinced that when
Charles gets to town he will be in no hurry to leave it again, we have
determined on following him thither, that he may not be obliged to spend
his vacant hours in a comfortless hotel. Many of my acquaintance are
already there for the winter: I wish I could hear that you, my dearest
friend, had any intention of making one in the crowd, but of that I
despair. I sincerely hope your Christmas in Hertfordshire may abound in
the gaieties which that season generally brings, and that your beaux
will be so numerous as to prevent your feeling the loss of the three of
whom we shall deprive you.’ </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Why will you think so? It must be his own doing; he is his own master.
But you do not know _all_. I _will_ read you the passage which
particularly hurts me. I will have no reserves from _you_. ‘Mr. Darcy is
impatient to see his sister; and to confess the truth, _we_ are scarcely
less eager to meet her again. I really do not think Georgiana Darcy has
her equal for beauty, elegance, and accomplishments; and the affection
she inspires in Louisa and myself is heightened into something still
more interesting from the hope we dare to entertain of her being
hereafter our sister. I do not know whether I ever before mentioned to
you my feelings on this subject, but I will not leave the country
without confiding them, and I trust you will not esteem them
unreasonable. My brother admires her greatly already; he will have
frequent opportunity now of seeing her on the most intimate footing; her
relations all wish the connection as much as his own; and a sister’s
partiality is not misleading me, I think, when I call Charles most
capable of engaging any woman’s heart. With all these circumstances to
favour an attachment, and nothing to prevent it, am I wrong, my dearest
Jane, in indulging the hope of an event which will secure the happiness
of so many?’ What think you of _this_ sentence, my dear Lizzy?” said
Jane, as she finished it. “Is it not clear enough? Does it not expressly
declare that Caroline neither expects nor wishes me to be her sister;
that she is perfectly convinced of her brother’s indifference; and that
if she suspects the nature of my feelings for him she means (most
kindly!) to put me on my guard. Can there be any other opinion on the
subject?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You shall have it in a few words. Miss Bingley sees that her brother is
in love with you and wants him to marry Miss Darcy. She follows him to
town in the hope of keeping him there, and tries to persuade you that he
does not care about you.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Indeed, Jane, you ought to believe me. No one who has ever seen you
together can doubt his affection; Miss Bingley, I am sure, cannot: she
is not such a simpleton. Could she have seen half as much love in Mr.
Darcy for herself, she would have ordered her wedding clothes. But the
case is this:--we are not rich enough or grand enough for them; and she
is the more anxious to get Miss Darcy for her brother, from the notion
that when there has been _one_ inter-marriage, she may have less trouble
in achieving a second; in which there is certainly some ingenuity, and I
dare say it would succeed if Miss de Bourgh were out of the way. But, my
dearest Jane, you cannot seriously imagine that, because Miss Bingley
tells you her brother greatly admires Miss Darcy, he is in the smallest
degree less sensible of _your_ merit than when he took leave of you on
Tuesday; or that it will be in her power to persuade him that, instead
of being in love with you, he is very much in love with her friend.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If we thought alike of Miss Bingley,” replied Jane, “your
representation of all this might make me quite easy. But I know the
foundation is unjust. Caroline is incapable of wilfully deceiving
anyone; and all that I can hope in this case is, that she is deceived
herself.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That is right. You could not have started a more happy idea, since you
will not take comfort in mine: believe her to be deceived, by all means.
You have now done your duty by her, and must fret no longer.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But, my dear sister, can I be happy, even supposing the best, in
accepting a man whose sisters and friends are all wishing him to marry
elsewhere?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You must decide for yourself,” said Elizabeth; “and if, upon mature
deliberation, you find that the misery of disobliging his two sisters is
more than equivalent to the happiness of being his wife, I advise you,
by all means, to refuse him.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “How can you talk so?” said Jane, faintly smiling; “you must know, that,
though I should be exceedingly grieved at their disapprobation, I could
not hesitate.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But if he returns no more this winter, my choice will never be
required. A thousand things may arise in six months.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The idea of his returning no more Elizabeth treated with the utmost
contempt. It appeared to her merely the suggestion of Caroline’s
interested wishes; and she could not for a moment suppose that those
wishes, however openly or artfully spoken, could influence a young man
so totally independent of everyone. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She represented to her sister, as forcibly as possible, what she felt on
the subject, and had soon the pleasure of seeing its happy effect.
Jane’s temper was not desponding; and she was gradually led to hope,
though the diffidence of affection sometimes overcame the hope, that
Bingley would return to Netherfield, and answer every wish of her heart. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> They agreed that Mrs. Bennet should only hear of the departure of the
family, without being alarmed on the score of the gentleman’s conduct;
but even this partial communication gave her a great deal of concern,
and she bewailed it as exceedingly unlucky that the ladies should happen
to go away just as they were all getting so intimate together. After
lamenting it, however, at some length, she had the consolation of
thinking that Mr. Bingley would be soon down again, and soon dining at
Longbourn; and the conclusion of all was the comfortable declaration,
that, though he had been invited only to a family dinner, she would take
care to have two full courses. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Bennets were engaged to dine with the Lucases; and again, during the
chief of the day, was Miss Lucas so kind as to listen to Mr. Collins.
Elizabeth took an opportunity of thanking her. “It keeps him in good
humour,” said she, “and I am more obliged to you than I can express.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Charlotte assured her friend of her satisfaction in being useful, and
that it amply repaid her for the little sacrifice of her time. This was
very amiable; but Charlotte’s kindness extended farther than Elizabeth
had any conception of:--its object was nothing less than to secure her
from any return of Mr. Collins’s addresses, by engaging them towards
herself. Such was Miss Lucas’s scheme; and appearances were so
favourable, that when they parted at night, she would have felt almost
sure of success if he had not been to leave Hertfordshire so very soon.
But here she did injustice to the fire and independence of his
character; for it led him to escape out of Longbourn House the next
morning with admirable slyness, and hasten to Lucas Lodge to throw
himself at her feet. He was anxious to avoid the notice of his cousins,
from a conviction that, if they saw him depart, they could not fail to
conjecture his design, and he was not willing to have the attempt known
till its success could be known likewise; for, though feeling almost
secure, and with reason, for Charlotte had been tolerably encouraging,
he was comparatively diffident since the adventure of Wednesday. His
reception, however, was of the most flattering kind. Miss Lucas
perceived him from an upper window as he walked towards the house, and
instantly set out to meet him accidentally in the lane. But little had
she dared to hope that so much love and eloquence awaited her there. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In as short a time as Mr. Collins’s long speeches would allow,
everything was settled between them to the satisfaction of both; and as
they entered the house, he earnestly entreated her to name the day that
was to make him the happiest of men; and though such a solicitation must
be waived for the present, the lady felt no inclination to trifle with
his happiness. The stupidity with which he was favoured by nature must
guard his courtship from any charm that could make a woman wish for its
continuance; and Miss Lucas, who accepted him solely from the pure and
disinterested desire of an establishment, cared not how soon that
establishment were gained. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Sir William and Lady Lucas were speedily applied to for their consent;
and it was bestowed with a most joyful alacrity. Mr. Collins’s present
circumstances made it a most eligible match for their daughter, to whom
they could give little fortune; and his prospects of future wealth were
exceedingly fair. Lady Lucas began directly to calculate, with more
interest than the matter had ever </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> excited before, how many years longer Mr. Bennet was likely to live; and
Sir William gave it as his decided opinion, that whenever Mr. Collins
should be in possession of the Longbourn estate, it would be highly
expedient that both he and his wife should make their appearance at St.
James’s. The whole family in short were properly overjoyed on the
occasion. The younger girls formed hopes of _coming out_ a year or two
sooner than they might otherwise have done; and the boys were relieved
from their apprehension of Charlotte’s dying an old maid. Charlotte
herself was tolerably composed. She had gained her point, and had time
to consider of it. Her reflections were in general satisfactory. Mr.
Collins, to be sure, was neither sensible nor agreeable: his society was
irksome, and his attachment to her must be imaginary. But still he would
be her husband. Without thinking highly either of men or of matrimony,
marriage had always been her object: it was the only honourable
provision for well-educated young women of small fortune, and, however
uncertain of giving happiness, must be their pleasantest preservative
from want. This preservative she had now obtained; and at the age of
twenty-seven, without having ever been handsome, she felt all the good
luck of it. The least agreeable circumstance in the business was the
surprise it must occasion to Elizabeth Bennet, whose friendship she
valued beyond that of any other person. Elizabeth would wonder, and
probably would blame her; and though her resolution was not to be
shaken, her feelings must be hurt by such a disapprobation. She resolved
to give her the information herself; and therefore charged Mr. Collins,
when he returned to Longbourn to dinner, to drop no hint of what had
passed before any of the family. A promise of secrecy was of course very
dutifully given, but it could not be kept without difficulty; for the
curiosity excited by his long absence burst forth in such very direct
questions on his return, as required some ingenuity to evade, and he was
at the same time exercising great self-denial, for he was longing to
publish his prosperous love. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As he was to begin his journey too early on the morrow to see any of
the family, the ceremony of leave-taking was performed when the ladies
moved for the night; and Mrs. Bennet, with great politeness and
cordiality, said how happy they should be to see him at Longbourn again,
whenever his other engagements might allow him to visit them. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My dear madam,” he replied, “this invitation is particularly
gratifying, because it is what I have been hoping to receive; and you
may be very certain that I shall avail myself of it as soon as
possible.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But is there not danger of Lady Catherine’s disapprobation here, my
good sir? You had better neglect your relations than run the risk of
offending your patroness.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My dear sir,” replied Mr. Collins, “I am particularly obliged to you
for this friendly caution, and you may depend upon my not taking so
material a step without her Ladyship’s concurrence.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You cannot be too much on your guard. Risk anything rather than her
displeasure; and if you find it likely to be raised by your coming to us
again, which I should think exceedingly probable, stay quietly at home,
and be satisfied that _we_ shall take no offence.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Believe me, my dear sir, my gratitude is warmly excited by such
affectionate attention; and, depend upon it, you will speedily receive
from me a letter of thanks for this as well as for every other mark of
your regard during my stay in Hertfordshire. As for my fair cousins,
though my absence may not be long enough to render it necessary, I shall
now take the liberty of wishing them health and happiness, not excepting
my cousin Elizabeth.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> With proper civilities, the ladies then withdrew; all of them equally
surprised to find that he meditated a quick return. Mrs. Bennet wished
to understand by it that he thought of paying his addresses to one of
her younger girls, and Mary might have been prevailed on to accept him.
She rated his abilities much higher than any of the others: there was a
solidity in his reflections which often struck her; and though by no
means so clever as herself, she thought that, if encouraged to read and
improve himself by such an example as hers, he might become a very
agreeable companion. But on the following morning every hope of this
kind was done away. Miss Lucas called soon after breakfast, and in a
private conference with Elizabeth related the event of the day before. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The possibility of Mr. Collins’s fancying himself in love with her
friend had once occurred to Elizabeth within the last day or two: but
that Charlotte could encourage him seemed almost as far from possibility
as that she could encourage him herself; and her astonishment was
consequently so great as to overcome at first the bounds of decorum, and
she could not help crying out,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The steady countenance which Miss Lucas had commanded in telling her
story gave way to a momentary confusion here on receiving so direct a
reproach; though, as it was no more than she expected, she soon regained
her composure, and calmly replied,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Why should you be surprised, my dear Eliza? Do you think it incredible
that Mr. Collins should be able to procure any woman’s good opinion,
because he was not so happy as to succeed with you?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But Elizabeth had now recollected herself; and, making a strong effort
for it, was able to assure her, with tolerable firmness, that the
prospect of their relationship was highly grateful to her, and that she
wished her all imaginable happiness. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I see what you are feeling,” replied Charlotte; “you must be surprised,
very much surprised, so lately as Mr. Collins was wishing to marry you.
But when you have had time to think it all over, I hope you will be
satisfied with what I have done. I am not romantic, you know. I never
was. I ask only a comfortable home; and, considering Mr. Collins’s
character, connections, and situation in life, I am convinced that my
chance of happiness with him is as fair as most people can boast on
entering the marriage state.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth quietly answered “undoubtedly;” and, after an awkward pause,
they returned to the rest of the family. Charlotte did not stay much
longer; and Elizabeth was then left to reflect on what she had heard. It
was a long time before she became at all reconciled to the idea of so
unsuitable a match. The strangeness of Mr. Collins’s making two offers
of marriage within three days was nothing in comparison of his being now
accepted. She had always felt that Charlotte’s opinion of matrimony was
not exactly like her own; but she could not have supposed it possible
that, when called into action, she would have sacrificed every better
feeling to worldly advantage. Charlotte, the wife of Mr. Collins, was a
most humiliating picture! And to the pang of a friend disgracing
herself, and sunk in her esteem, was added the distressing conviction
that it was impossible for that friend to be tolerably happy in the lot
she had chosen. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth was sitting with her mother and sisters, reflecting on what
she had heard, and doubting whether she was authorized to mention it,
when Sir William Lucas himself appeared, sent by his daughter to
announce her engagement to the family. With many compliments to them,
and much self-gratulation on the prospect of a connection between the
houses, he unfolded the matter,--to an audience not merely wondering,
but incredulous; for Mrs. Bennet, with more perseverance than
politeness, protested he must be entirely mistaken; and Lydia, always
unguarded and often uncivil, boisterously exclaimed,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Good Lord! Sir William, how can you tell such a story? Do not you know
that Mr. Collins wants to marry Lizzy?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Nothing less than the complaisance of a courtier could have borne
without anger such treatment: but Sir William’s good-breeding carried
him through it all; and though he begged leave to be positive as to the
truth of his information, he listened to all their impertinence with the
most forbearing courtesy. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth, feeling it incumbent on her to relieve him from so unpleasant
a situation, now put herself forward to confirm his account, by
mentioning her prior knowledge of it from Charlotte herself; and
endeavoured to put a stop to the exclamations of her mother and sisters,
by the earnestness of her congratulations to Sir William, in which she
was readily joined by Jane, and by making a variety of remarks on the
happiness that might be expected from the match, the excellent character
of Mr. Collins, and the convenient distance of Hunsford from London. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Bennet was, in fact, too much overpowered to say a great deal while
Sir William remained; but no sooner had he left them than her feelings
found a rapid vent. In the first place, she persisted in disbelieving
the whole of the matter; secondly, she was very sure that Mr. Collins
had been taken in; thirdly, she trusted that they would never be happy
together; and, fourthly, that the match might be broken off. Two
inferences, however, were plainly deduced from the whole: one, that
Elizabeth was the real cause of all the mischief; and the other, that
she herself had been barbarously used by them all; and on these two
points she principally dwelt during the rest of the day. Nothing could
console and nothing appease her. Nor did that day wear out her
resentment. A week elapsed before she could see Elizabeth without
scolding her: a month passed away before she could speak to Sir William
or Lady Lucas without being rude; and many months were gone before she
could at all forgive their daughter. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Bennet’s emotions were much more tranquil on the occasion, and such
as he did experience he pronounced to be of a most agreeable sort; for
it gratified him, he said, to discover that Charlotte Lucas, whom he had
been used to think tolerably sensible, was as foolish as his wife, and
more foolish than his daughter! </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Jane confessed herself a little surprised at the match: but she said
less of her astonishment than of her earnest desire for their happiness;
nor could Elizabeth persuade her to consider it as improbable. Kitty and
Lydia were far from envying Miss Lucas, for Mr. Collins was only a
clergyman; and it affected them in no other way than as a piece of news
to spread at Meryton. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Lady Lucas could not be insensible of triumph on being able to retort on
Mrs. Bennet the comfort of having a daughter well married; and she
called at Longbourn rather oftener than usual to say how happy she was,
though Mrs. Bennet’s sour looks and ill-natured remarks might have been
enough to drive happiness away. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Between Elizabeth and Charlotte there was a restraint which kept them
mutually silent on the subject; and Elizabeth felt persuaded that no
real confidence could ever subsist between them again. Her
disappointment in Charlotte made her turn with fonder regard to her
sister, of whose rectitude and delicacy she was sure her opinion could
never be shaken, and for whose happiness she grew daily more anxious, as
Bingley had now been gone a week, and nothing was heard of his return. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Jane had sent Caroline an early answer to her letter, and was counting
the days till she might reasonably hope to hear again. The promised
letter of thanks from Mr. Collins arrived on Tuesday, addressed to their
father, and written with all the solemnity of gratitude which a
twelve-month’s abode in the family might have prompted. After
discharging his conscience on that head, he proceeded to inform them,
with many rapturous expressions, of his happiness in having obtained the
affection of their amiable neighbour, Miss Lucas, and then explained
that it was merely with the view of enjoying her society that he had
been so ready to close with their kind wish of seeing him again at
Longbourn, whither he hoped to be able to return on Monday fortnight;
for Lady Catherine, he added, so heartily approved his marriage, that
she wished it to take place as soon as possible, which he trusted would
be an unanswerable argument with his amiable Charlotte to name an early
day for making him the happiest of men. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Collins’s return into Hertfordshire was no longer a matter of
pleasure to Mrs. Bennet. On the contrary, she was as much disposed to
complain of it as her husband. It was very strange that he should come
to Longbourn instead of to Lucas Lodge; it was also very inconvenient
and exceedingly troublesome. She hated having visitors in the house
while her health was so indifferent, and lovers were of all people the
most disagreeable. Such were the gentle murmurs of Mrs. Bennet, and they
gave way only to the greater distress of Mr. Bingley’s continued
absence. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Neither Jane nor Elizabeth were comfortable on this subject. Day after
day passed away without bringing any other tidings of him than the
report which shortly prevailed in Meryton of his coming no more to
Netherfield the whole winter; a report which highly incensed Mrs.
Bennet, and which she never failed to contradict as a most scandalous
falsehood. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Even Elizabeth began to fear--not that Bingley was indifferent--but that
his sisters would be successful in keeping him away. Unwilling as she
was to admit an idea so destructive to Jane’s happiness, and so
dishonourable to the stability of her lover, she could not prevent its
frequently recurring. The united efforts of his two unfeeling sisters,
and of his overpowering friend, assisted by the attractions of Miss
Darcy and the amusements of London, might be too much, she feared, for
the strength of his attachment. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As for Jane, _her_ anxiety under this suspense was, of course, more
painful than Elizabeth’s: but whatever she felt she was desirous of
concealing; and between herself and Elizabeth, therefore, the subject
was never alluded to. But as no such delicacy restrained her mother, an
hour seldom passed in which she did not talk of Bingley, express her
impatience for his arrival, or even require Jane to confess that if he
did not come back she should think herself very ill-used. It needed all
Jane’s steady mildness to bear these attacks with tolerable
tranquillity. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Collins returned most punctually on the Monday fortnight, but his
reception at Longbourn was not quite so gracious as it had been on his
first introduction. He was too happy, however, to need much attention;
and, luckily for the others, the business of love-making relieved them
from a great deal of his company. The chief of every day was spent by
him at Lucas Lodge, and he sometimes returned to Longbourn only in time
to make an apology for his absence before the family went to bed. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Bennet was really in a most pitiable state. The very mention of
anything concerning the match threw her into an agony of ill-humour, and
wherever she went she was sure of hearing it talked of. The sight of
Miss Lucas was odious to her. As her successor in that house, she
regarded her with jealous abhorrence. Whenever Charlotte came to see
them, she concluded her to be anticipating the hour of possession; and
whenever she spoke in a low voice to Mr. Collins, was convinced that
they were talking of the Longbourn estate, and resolving to turn herself
and her daughters out of the house as soon as Mr. Bennet was dead. She
complained bitterly of all this to her husband. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Indeed, Mr. Bennet,” said she, “it is very hard to think that Charlotte
Lucas should ever be mistress of this house, that _I_ should be forced
to make way for _her_, and live to see her take my place in it!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My dear, do not give way to such gloomy thoughts. Let us hope for
better things. Let us flatter ourselves that _I_ may be the survivor.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I cannot bear to think that they should have all this estate. If it was
not for the entail, I should not mind it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I never can be thankful, Mr. Bennet, for anything about the entail. How
anyone could have the conscience to entail away an estate from one’s own
daughters I cannot understand; and all for the sake of Mr. Collins, too!
Why should _he_ have it more than anybody else?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Miss Bingley’s letter arrived, and put an end to doubt. The very first
sentence conveyed the assurance of their being all settled in London for
the winter, and concluded with her brother’s regret at not having had
time to pay his respects to his friends in Hertfordshire before he left
the country. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Hope was over, entirely over; and when Jane could attend to the rest of
the letter, she found little, except the professed affection of the
writer, that could give her any comfort. Miss Darcy’s praise occupied
the chief of it. Her many attractions were again dwelt on; and Caroline
boasted joyfully of their increasing intimacy, and ventured to predict
the accomplishment of the wishes which had been unfolded in her former
letter. She wrote also with great pleasure of her brother’s being an
inmate of Mr. Darcy’s house, and mentioned with raptures some plans of
the latter with regard to new furniture. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth, to whom Jane very soon communicated the chief of all this,
heard it in silent indignation. Her heart was divided between concern
for her sister and resentment against all others. To Caroline’s
assertion of her brother’s being partial to Miss Darcy, she paid no
credit. That he was really fond of Jane, she doubted no more than she
had ever done; and much as she had always been disposed to like him, she
could not think without anger, hardly without contempt, on that easiness
of temper, that want of proper resolution, which now made him the slave
of his designing friends, and led him to sacrifice his own happiness to
the caprice of their inclinations. Had his own happiness, however, been
the only sacrifice, he might have been allowed to sport with it in
whatever manner he thought best; but her sister’s was involved in it, as
she thought he must be sensible himself. It was a subject, in short, on
which reflection would be long indulged, and must be unavailing. She
could think of nothing else; and yet, whether Bingley’s regard had
really died away, or were suppressed by his friends’ interference;
whether he had been aware of Jane’s attachment, or whether it had
escaped his observation; whichever were the case, though her opinion of
him must be materially affected by the difference, her sister’s
situation remained the same, her peace equally wounded. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> A day or two passed before Jane had courage to speak of her feelings to
Elizabeth; but at last, on Mrs. Bennet’s leaving them together, after a
longer irritation than usual about Netherfield and its master, she could
not help saying,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “O that my dear mother had more command over herself! she can have no
idea of the pain she gives me by her continual reflections on him. But I
will not repine. It cannot last long. He will be forgot, and we shall
all be as we were before.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You doubt me,” cried Jane, slightly colouring; “indeed, you have no
reason. He may live in my memory as the most amiable man of my
acquaintance but that is all. I have nothing either to hope or fear, and
nothing to reproach him with. Thank God I have not _that_ pain. A little
time, therefore--I shall certainly try to get the better----” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> With a stronger voice she soon added, “I have this comfort immediately,
that it has not been more than an error of fancy on my side, and that it
has done no harm to anyone but myself.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My dear Jane,” exclaimed Elizabeth, “you are too good. Your sweetness
and disinterestedness are really angelic; I do not know what to say to
you. I feel as if I had never done you justice, or loved you as you
deserve.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Nay,” said Elizabeth, “this is not fair. _You_ wish to think all the
world respectable, and are hurt if I speak ill of anybody. _I_ only want
to think _you_ perfect, and you set yourself against it. Do not be
afraid of my running into any excess, of my encroaching on your
privilege of universal good-will. You need not. There are few people
whom I really love, and still fewer of whom I think well. The more I see
of the world the more am I dissatisfied with it; and every day confirms
my belief of the inconsistency of all human characters, and of the
little dependence that can be placed on the appearance of either merit
or sense. I have met with two instances lately: one I will not mention,
the other is Charlotte’s marriage. It is unaccountable! in every view it
is unaccountable!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My dear Lizzy, do not give way to such feelings as these. They will
ruin your happiness. You do not make allowance enough for difference of
situation and temper. Consider Mr. Collins’s respectability, and
Charlotte’s prudent, steady character. Remember that she is one of a
large family; that as to fortune it is a most eligible match; and be
ready to believe, for everybody’s sake, that she may feel something like
regard and esteem for our cousin.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “To oblige you, I would try to believe almost anything, but no one else
could be benefited by such a belief as this; for were I persuaded that
Charlotte had any regard for him, I should only think worse of her
understanding than I now do of her heart. My dear Jane, Mr. Collins is a
conceited, pompous, narrow-minded, silly man: you know he is, as well as
I do; and you must feel, as well as I do, that the woman who marries him
cannot have a proper way of thinking. You shall not defend her, though
it is Charlotte Lucas. You shall not, for the sake of one individual,
change the meaning of principle and integrity, nor endeavour to persuade
yourself or me, that selfishness is prudence, and insensibility of
danger security for happiness.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I must think your language too strong in speaking of both,” replied
Jane; “and I hope you will be convinced of it, by seeing them happy
together. But enough of this. You alluded to something else. You
mentioned _two_ instances. I cannot misunderstand you, but I entreat
you, dear Lizzy, not to pain me by thinking _that person_ to blame, and
saying your opinion of him is sunk. We must not be so ready to fancy
ourselves intentionally injured. We must not expect a lively young man
to be always so guarded and circumspect. It is very often nothing but
our own vanity that deceives us. Women fancy admiration means more than
it does.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If it is designedly done, they cannot be justified; but I have no idea
of there being so much design in the world as some persons imagine.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am far from attributing any part of Mr. Bingley’s conduct to design,”
said Elizabeth; “but, without scheming to do wrong, or to make others
unhappy, there may be error and there may be misery. Thoughtlessness,
want of attention to other people’s feelings, and want of resolution,
will do the business.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes; to the last. But if I go on I shall displease you by saying what I
think of persons you esteem. Stop me, whilst you can.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I cannot believe it. Why should they try to influence him? They can
only wish his happiness; and if he is attached to me no other woman can
secure it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Your first position is false. They may wish many things besides his
happiness: they may wish his increase of wealth and consequence; they
may wish him to marry a girl who has all the importance of money, great
connections, and pride.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Beyond a doubt they do wish him to choose Miss Darcy,” replied Jane;
“but this may be from better feelings than you are supposing. They have
known her much longer than they have known me; no wonder if they love
her better. But, whatever may be their own wishes, it is very unlikely
they should have opposed their brother’s. What sister would think
herself at liberty to do it, unless there were something very
objectionable? If they believed him attached to me they would not try to
part us; if he were so, they could not succeed. By supposing such an
affection, you make everybody acting unnaturally and wrong, and me most
unhappy. Do not distress me by the idea. I am not ashamed of having been
mistaken--or, at least, it is slight, it is nothing in comparison of
what I should feel in thinking ill of him or his sisters. Let me take it
in the best light, in the light in which it may be understood.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Bennet still continued to wonder and repine at his returning no
more; and though a day seldom passed in which Elizabeth did not account
for it clearly, there seemed little chance of her ever considering it
with less perplexity. Her daughter endeavoured to convince her of what
she did not believe herself, that his attentions to Jane had been merely
the effect of a common and transient liking, which ceased when he saw
her no more; but though the probability of the statement was admitted at
the time, she had the same story to repeat every day. Mrs. Bennet’s best
comfort was, that Mr. Bingley must be down again in the summer. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Bennet treated the matter differently. “So, Lizzy,” said he, one
day, “your sister is crossed in love, I find. I congratulate her. Next
to being married, a girl likes to be crossed in love a little now and
then. It is something to think of, and gives her a sort of distinction
among her companions. When is your turn to come? You will hardly bear to
be long outdone by Jane. Now is your time. Here are officers enough at
Meryton to disappoint all the young ladies in the country. Let Wickham
be your man. He is a pleasant fellow, and would jilt you creditably.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “True,” said Mr. Bennet; “but it is a comfort to think that, whatever of
that kind may befall you, you have an affectionate mother who will
always make the most of it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Wickham’s society was of material service in dispelling the gloom
which the late perverse occurrences had thrown on many of the Longbourn
family. They saw him often, and to his other recommendations was now
added that of general unreserve. The whole of what Elizabeth had already
heard, his claims on Mr. Darcy, and all that he had suffered from him,
was now openly acknowledged and publicly canvassed; and everybody was
pleased to think how much they had always disliked Mr. Darcy before they
had known anything of the matter. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Miss Bennet was the only creature who could suppose there might be any
extenuating circumstances in the case unknown to the society of
Hertfordshire: her mild and steady candour always pleaded for
allowances, and urged the possibility of mistakes; but by everybody else
Mr. Darcy was condemned as the worst of men. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> After a week spent in professions of love and schemes of felicity, Mr.
Collins was called from his amiable Charlotte by the arrival of
Saturday. The pain of separation, however, might be alleviated on his
side by preparations for the reception of his bride, as he had reason to
hope, that shortly after his next return into Hertfordshire, the day
would be fixed that was to make him the happiest of men. He took leave
of his relations at Longbourn with as much solemnity as before; wished
his fair cousins health and happiness again, and promised their father
another letter of thanks. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> On the following Monday, Mrs. Bennet had the pleasure of receiving her
brother and his wife, who came, as usual, to spend the Christmas at
Longbourn. Mr. Gardiner was a sensible, gentlemanlike man, greatly
superior to his sister, as well by nature as education. The Netherfield
ladies would have had difficulty in believing that a man who lived by
trade, and within view of his own warehouses, could have been so
well-bred and agreeable. Mrs. Gardiner, who was several years younger
than Mrs. Bennet and Mrs. Philips, was an amiable, intelligent, elegant
woman, and a great favourite with her Longbourn nieces. Between the two
eldest and herself especially, there subsisted a very particular regard.
They had frequently been staying with her in town. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The first part of Mrs. Gardiner’s business, on her arrival, was to
distribute her presents and describe the newest fashions. When this was
done, she had a less active part to play. It became her turn to listen.
Mrs. Bennet had many grievances to relate, and much to complain of. They
had all been very ill-used since she last saw her sister. Two of her
girls had been on the point of marriage, and after all there was nothing
in it. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I do not blame Jane,” she continued, “for Jane would have got Mr.
Bingley if she could. But, Lizzy! Oh, sister! it is very hard to think
that she might have been Mr. Collins’s wife by this time, had not it
been for her own perverseness. He made her an offer in this very room,
and she refused him. The consequence of it is, that Lady Lucas will have
a daughter married before I have, and that Longbourn estate is just as
much entailed as ever. The Lucases are very artful people, indeed,
sister. They are all for what they can get. I am sorry to say it of
them, but so it is. It makes me very nervous and poorly, to be thwarted
so in my own family, and to have neighbours who think of themselves
before anybody else. However, your coming just at this time is the
greatest of comforts, and I am very glad to hear what you tell us of
long sleeves.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Gardiner, to whom the chief of this news had been given before, in
the course of Jane and Elizabeth’s correspondence with her, made her
sister a slight answer, and, in compassion to her nieces, turned the
conversation. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When alone with Elizabeth afterwards, she spoke more on the subject.
“It seems likely to have been a desirable match for Jane,” said she. “I
am sorry it went off. But these things happen so often! A young man,
such as you describe Mr. Bingley, so easily falls in love with a pretty
girl for a few weeks, and, when accident separates them, so easily
forgets her, that these sort of inconstancies are very frequent.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “An excellent consolation in its way,” said Elizabeth; “but it will not
do for _us_. We do not suffer by accident. It does not often happen
that the interference of friends will persuade a young man of
independent fortune to think no more of a girl whom he was violently in
love with only a few days before.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But that expression of ‘violently in love’ is so hackneyed, so
doubtful, so indefinite, that it gives me very little idea. It is as
often applied to feelings which arise only from a half hour’s
acquaintance, as to a real, strong attachment. Pray, how _violent was_
Mr. Bingley’s love?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I never saw a more promising inclination; he was growing quite
inattentive to other people, and wholly engrossed by her. Every time
they met, it was more decided and remarkable. At his own ball he
offended two or three young ladies by not asking them to dance; and I
spoke to him twice myself without receiving an answer. Could there be
finer symptoms? Is not general incivility the very essence of love?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, yes! of that kind of love which I suppose him to have felt. Poor
Jane! I am sorry for her, because, with her disposition, she may not get
over it immediately. It had better have happened to _you_, Lizzy; you
would have laughed yourself out of it sooner. But do you think she would
be prevailed on to go back with us? Change of scene might be of
service--and perhaps a little relief from home may be as useful as
anything.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I hope,” added Mrs. Gardiner, “that no consideration with regard to
this young man will influence her. We live in so different a part of
town, all our connections are so different, and, as you well know, we go
out so little, that it is very improbable they should meet at all,
unless he really comes to see her.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And _that_ is quite impossible; for he is now in the custody of his
friend, and Mr. Darcy would no more suffer him to call on Jane in such a
part of London! My dear aunt, how could you think of it? Mr. Darcy may,
perhaps, have _heard_ of such a place as Gracechurch Street, but he
would hardly think a month’s ablution enough to cleanse him from its
impurities, were he once to enter it; and, depend upon it, Mr. Bingley
never stirs without him.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “So much the better. I hope they will not meet at all. But does not Jane
correspond with his sister? _She_ will not be able to help calling.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But, in spite of the certainty in which Elizabeth affected to place this
point, as well as the still more interesting one of Bingley’s being
withheld from seeing Jane, she felt a solicitude on the subject which
convinced her, on examination, that she did not consider it entirely
hopeless. It was possible, and sometimes she thought it probable, that
his affection might be re-animated, and the influence of his friends
successfully combated by the more natural influence of Jane’s
attractions. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Miss Bennet accepted her aunt’s invitation with pleasure; and the
Bingleys were no otherwise in her thoughts at the same time than as she
hoped, by Caroline’s not living in the same house with her brother, she
might occasionally spend a morning with her, without any danger of
seeing him. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Gardiners stayed a week at Longbourn; and what with the Philipses,
the Lucases, and the officers, there was not a day without its
engagement. Mrs. Bennet had so carefully provided for the entertainment
of her brother and sister, that they did not once sit down to a family
dinner. When the engagement was for home, some of the officers always
made part of it, of which officers Mr. Wickham was sure to be one; and
on these occasions Mrs. Gardiner, rendered suspicious by Elizabeth’s
warm commendation of him, narrowly observed them both. Without supposing
them, from what she saw, to be very seriously in love, their preference
of each other was plain enough to make her a little uneasy; and she
resolved to speak to Elizabeth on the subject before she left
Hertfordshire, and represent to her the imprudence of encouraging such
an attachment. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> To Mrs. Gardiner, Wickham had one means of affording pleasure,
unconnected with his general powers. About ten or a dozen years ago,
before her marriage, she had spent a considerable time in that very part
of Derbyshire to which he belonged. They had, therefore, many
acquaintance in common; and, though Wickham had been little there since
the death of Darcy’s father, five years before, it was yet in his power
to give her fresher intelligence of her former friends than she had been
in the way of procuring. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Gardiner had seen Pemberley, and known the late Mr. Darcy by
character perfectly well. Here, consequently, was an inexhaustible
subject of discourse. In comparing her recollection of Pemberley with
the minute description which Wickham could give, and in bestowing her
tribute of praise on the character of its late possessor, she was
delighting both him and herself. On being made acquainted with the
present Mr. Darcy’s treatment of him, she tried to remember something of
that gentleman’s reputed disposition, when quite a lad, which might
agree with it; and was confident, at last, that she recollected having
heard Mr. Fitzwilliam Darcy formerly spoken of as a very proud,
ill-natured boy. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Gardiner’s caution to Elizabeth was punctually and kindly given on
the first favourable opportunity of speaking to her alone: after
honestly telling her what she thought, she thus went on:-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You are too sensible a girl, Lizzy, to fall in love merely because you
are warned against it; and, therefore, I am not afraid of speaking
openly. Seriously, I would have you be on your guard. Do not involve
yourself, or endeavour to involve him, in an affection which the want of
fortune would make so very imprudent. I have nothing to say against
_him_: he is a most interesting young man; and if he had the fortune he
ought to have, I should think you could not do better. But as it is--you
must not let your fancy run away with you. You have sense, and we all
expect you to use it. Your father would depend on _your_ resolution and
good conduct, I am sure. You must not disappoint your father.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, then, you need not be under any alarm. I will take care of
myself, and of Mr. Wickham too. He shall not be in love with me, if I
can prevent it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I beg your pardon. I will try again. At present I am not in love with
Mr. Wickham; no, I certainly am not. But he is, beyond all comparison,
the most agreeable man I ever saw--and if he becomes really attached to
me--I believe it will be better that he should not. I see the imprudence
of it. Oh, _that_ abominable Mr. Darcy! My father’s opinion of me does
me the greatest honour; and I should be miserable to forfeit it. My
father, however, is partial to Mr. Wickham. In short, my dear aunt, I
should be very sorry to be the means of making any of you unhappy; but
since we see, every day, that where there is affection young people are
seldom withheld, by immediate want of fortune, from entering into
engagements with each other, how can I promise to be wiser than so many
of my fellow-creatures, if I am tempted, or how am I even to know that
it would be wiser to resist? All that I can promise you, therefore, is
not to be in a hurry. I will not be in a hurry to believe myself his
first object. When I am in company with him, I will not be wishing. In
short, I will do my best.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Perhaps it will be as well if you discourage his coming here so very
often. At least you should not _remind_ your mother of inviting him.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “As I did the other day,” said Elizabeth, with a conscious smile; “very
true, it will be wise in me to refrain from _that_. But do not imagine
that he is always here so often. It is on your account that he has been
so frequently invited this week. You know my mother’s ideas as to the
necessity of constant company for her friends. But really, and upon my
honour, I will try to do what I think to be wisest; and now I hope you
are satisfied.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Her aunt assured her that she was; and Elizabeth, having thanked her for
the kindness of her hints, they parted,--a wonderful instance of advice
being given on such a point without being resented. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Collins returned into Hertfordshire soon after it had been quitted
by the Gardiners and Jane; but, as he took up his abode with the
Lucases, his arrival was no great inconvenience to Mrs. Bennet. His
marriage was now fast approaching; and she was at length so far resigned
as to think it inevitable, and even repeatedly to say, in an ill-natured
tone, that she “_wished_ they might be happy.” Thursday was to be the
wedding-day, and on Wednesday Miss Lucas paid her farewell visit; and
when she rose to take leave, Elizabeth, ashamed of her mother’s
ungracious and reluctant good wishes, and sincerely affected herself,
accompanied her out of the room. As they went down stairs together,
Charlotte said,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My father and Maria are to come to me in March,” added Charlotte, “and
I hope you will consent to be of the party. Indeed, Eliza, you will be
as welcome to me as either of them.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The wedding took place: the bride and bridegroom set off for Kent from
the church door, and everybody had as much to say or to hear on the
subject as usual. Elizabeth soon heard from her friend, and their
correspondence was as regular and frequent as it ever had been: that it
should be equally unreserved was impossible. Elizabeth could never
address her without feeling that all the comfort of intimacy was over;
and, though determined not to slacken as a correspondent, it was for the
sake of what had been rather than what was. Charlotte’s first letters
were received with a good deal of eagerness: there could not but be
curiosity to know how she would speak of her new home, how she would
like Lady Catherine, and how happy she would dare pronounce herself to
be; though, when the letters were read, Elizabeth felt that Charlotte
expressed herself on every point exactly as she might have foreseen. She
wrote cheerfully, seemed surrounded with comforts, and mentioned nothing
which she could not praise. The house, furniture, neighbourhood, and
roads, were all to her taste, and Lady Catherine’s behaviour was most
friendly and obliging. It was Mr. Collins’s picture of Hunsford and
Rosings rationally softened; and Elizabeth perceived that she must wait
for her own visit there, to know the rest. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Jane had already written a few lines to her sister, to announce their
safe arrival in London; and when she wrote again, Elizabeth hoped it
would be in her power to say something of the Bingleys. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Her impatience for this second letter was as well rewarded as impatience
generally is. Jane had been a week in town, without either seeing or
hearing from Caroline. She accounted for it, however, by supposing that
her last letter to her friend from Longbourn had by some accident been
lost. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My aunt,” she continued, “is going to-morrow into that part of the
town, and I shall take the opportunity of calling in Grosvenor Street.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She wrote again when the visit was paid, and she had seen Miss Bingley.
“I did not think Caroline in spirits,” were her words, “but she was very
glad to see me, and reproached me for giving her no notice of my coming
to London. I was right, therefore; my last letter had never reached her.
I inquired after their brother, of course. He was well, but so much
engaged with Mr. Darcy that they scarcely ever saw him. I found that
Miss Darcy was expected to dinner: I wish I could see her. My visit was
not long, as Caroline and Mrs. Hurst were going out. I dare say I shall
soon see them here.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth shook her head over this letter. It convinced her that
accident only could discover to Mr. Bingley her sister’s being in town. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Four weeks passed away, and Jane saw nothing of him. She endeavoured to
persuade herself that she did not regret it; but she could no longer be
blind to Miss Bingley’s inattention. After waiting at home every morning
for a fortnight, and inventing every evening a fresh excuse for her, the
visitor did at last appear; but the shortness of her stay, and, yet
more, the alteration of her manner, would allow Jane to deceive herself
no longer. The letter which she wrote on this occasion to her sister
will prove what she felt:-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My dearest Lizzy will, I am sure, be incapable of triumphing in
     her better judgment, at my expense, when I confess myself to have
     been entirely deceived in Miss Bingley’s regard for me. But, my
     dear sister, though the event has proved you right, do not think me
     obstinate if I still assert that, considering what her behaviour
     was, my confidence was as natural as your suspicion. I do not at
     all comprehend her reason for wishing to be intimate with me; but,
     if the same circumstances were to happen again, I am sure I should
     be deceived again. Caroline did not return my visit till yesterday;
     and not a note, not a line, did I receive in the meantime. When she
     did come, it was very evident that she had no pleasure in it; she
     made a slight, formal apology for not calling before, said not a
     word of wishing to see me again, and was, in every respect, so
     altered a creature, that when she went away I was perfectly
     resolved to continue the acquaintance no longer. I pity, though I
     cannot help blaming, her. She was very wrong in singling me out as
     she did; I can safely say, that every advance to intimacy began on
     her side. But I pity her, because she must feel that she has been
     acting wrong, and because I am very sure that anxiety for her
     brother is the cause of it. I need not explain myself farther; and
     though _we_ know this anxiety to be quite needless, yet if she
     feels it, it will easily account for her behaviour to me; and so
     deservedly dear as he is to his sister, whatever anxiety she may
     feel on his behalf is natural and amiable. I cannot but wonder,
     however, at her having any such fears now, because if he had at all
     cared about me, we must have met long, long ago. He knows of my
     being in town, I am certain, from something she said herself; and
     yet it would seem, by her manner of talking, as if she wanted to
     persuade herself that he is really partial to Miss Darcy. I cannot
     understand it. If I were not afraid of judging harshly, I should be
     almost tempted to say, that there is a strong appearance of
     duplicity in all this. I will endeavour to banish every painful
     thought, and think only of what will make me happy, your affection,
     and the invariable kindness of my dear uncle and aunt. Let me hear
     from you very soon. Miss Bingley said something of his never
     returning to Netherfield again, of giving up the house, but not
     with any certainty. We had better not mention it. I am extremely
     glad that you have such pleasant accounts from our friends at
     Hunsford. Pray go to see them, with Sir William and Maria. I am
     sure you will be very comfortable there. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This letter gave Elizabeth some pain; but her spirits returned, as she
considered that Jane would no longer be duped, by the sister at least.
All expectation from the brother was now absolutely over. She would not
even wish for any renewal of his attentions. His character sunk on every
review of it; and, as a punishment for him, as well as a possible
advantage to Jane, she seriously hoped he might really soon marry Mr.
Darcy’s sister, as, by Wickham’s account, she would make him abundantly
regret what he had thrown away. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Gardiner about this time reminded Elizabeth of her promise
concerning that gentleman, and required information; and Elizabeth had
such to send as might rather give contentment to her aunt than to
herself. His apparent partiality had subsided, his attentions were over,
he was the admirer of some one else. Elizabeth was watchful enough to
see it all, but she could see it and write of it without material pain.
Her heart had been but slightly touched, and her vanity was satisfied
with believing that _she_ would have been his only choice, had fortune
permitted it. The sudden acquisition of ten thousand pounds was the most
remarkable charm of the young lady to whom he was now rendering himself
agreeable; but Elizabeth, less clear-sighted perhaps in this case than
in Charlotte’s, did not quarrel with him for his wish of independence.
Nothing, on the contrary, could be more natural; and, while able to
suppose that it cost him a few struggles to relinquish her, she was
ready to allow it a wise and desirable measure for both, and could very
sincerely wish him happy. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> All this was acknowledged to Mrs. Gardiner; and, after relating the
circumstances, she thus went on:--“I am now convinced, my dear aunt,
that I have never been much in love; for had I really experienced that
pure and elevating passion, I should at present detest his very name,
and wish him all manner of evil. But my feelings are not only cordial
towards _him_, they are even impartial towards Miss King. I cannot find
out that I hate her at all, or that I am in the least unwilling to think
her a very good sort of girl. There can be no love in all this. My
watchfulness has been effectual; and though I should certainly be a more
interesting object to all my acquaintance, were I distractedly in love
with him, I cannot say that I regret my comparative insignificance.
Importance may sometimes be purchased too dearly. Kitty and Lydia take
his defection much more to heart than I do. They are young in the ways
of the world, and not yet open to the mortifying conviction that
handsome young men must have something to live on as well as the
plain.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> With no greater events than these in the Longbourn family, and otherwise
diversified by little beyond the walks to Meryton, sometimes dirty and
sometimes cold, did January and February pass away. March was to take
Elizabeth to Hunsford. She had not at first thought very seriously of
going thither; but Charlotte, she soon found, was depending on the
plan, and she gradually learned to consider it herself with greater
pleasure as well as greater certainty. Absence had increased her desire
of seeing Charlotte again, and weakened her disgust of Mr. Collins.
There was novelty in the scheme; and as, with such a mother and such
uncompanionable sisters, home could not be faultless, a little change
was not unwelcome for its own sake. The journey would, moreover, give
her a peep at Jane; and, in short, as the time drew near, she would have
been very sorry for any delay. Everything, however, went on smoothly,
and was finally settled according to Charlotte’s first sketch. She was
to accompany Sir William and his second daughter. The improvement of
spending a night in London was added in time, and the plan became as
perfect as plan could be. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The only pain was in leaving her father, who would certainly miss her,
and who, when it came to the point, so little liked her going, that he
told her to write to him, and almost promised to answer her letter. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The farewell between herself and Mr. Wickham was perfectly friendly; on
his side even more. His present pursuit could not make him forget that
Elizabeth had been the first to excite and to deserve his attention, the
first to listen and to pity, the first to be admired; and in his manner
of bidding her adieu, wishing her every enjoyment, reminding her of what
she was to expect in Lady Catherine de Bourgh, and trusting their
opinion of her--their opinion of everybody--would always coincide, there
was a solicitude, an interest, which she felt must ever attach her to
him with a most sincere regard; and she parted from him convinced, that,
whether married or single, he must always be her model of the amiable
and pleasing. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Her fellow-travellers the next day were not of a kind to make her think
him less agreeable. Sir William Lucas, and his daughter Maria, a
good-humoured girl, but as empty-headed as himself, had nothing to say
that could be worth hearing, and were listened to with about as much
delight as the rattle of the chaise. Elizabeth loved absurdities, but
she had known Sir William’s too long. He could tell her nothing new of
the wonders of his presentation and knighthood; and his civilities were
worn out, like his information. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was a journey of only twenty-four miles, and they began it so early
as to be in Gracechurch Street by noon. As they drove to Mr. Gardiner’s
door, Jane was at a drawing-room window watching their arrival: when
they entered the passage, she was there to welcome them, and Elizabeth,
looking earnestly in her face, was pleased to see it healthful and
lovely as ever. On the stairs were a troop of little boys and girls,
whose eagerness for their cousin’s appearance would not allow them to
wait in the drawing-room, and whose shyness, as they had not seen her
for a twelvemonth, prevented their coming lower. All was joy and
kindness. The day passed most pleasantly away; the morning in bustle and
shopping, and the evening at one of the theatres. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth then contrived to sit by her aunt. Their first subject was her
sister; and she was more grieved than astonished to hear, in reply to
her minute inquiries, that though Jane always struggled to support her
spirits, there were periods of dejection. It was reasonable, however, to
hope that they would not continue long. Mrs. Gardiner gave her the
particulars also of Miss Bingley’s visit in Gracechurch Street, and
repeated conversations occurring at different times between Jane and
herself, which proved that the former had, from her heart, given up the
acquaintance. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But, my dear Elizabeth,” she added, “what sort of girl is Miss King? I
should be sorry to think our friend mercenary.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Pray, my dear aunt, what is the difference in matrimonial affairs,
between the mercenary and the prudent motive? Where does discretion end,
and avarice begin? Last Christmas you were afraid of his marrying me,
because it would be imprudent; and now, because he is trying to get a
girl with only ten thousand pounds, you want to find out that he is
mercenary.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No--why should he? If it were not allowable for him to gain _my_
affections, because I had no money, what occasion could there be for
making love to a girl whom he did not care about, and who was equally
poor?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “A man in distressed circumstances has not time for all those elegant
decorums which other people may observe. If _she_ does not object to it,
why should _we_?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No, Lizzy, that is what I do _not_ choose. I should be sorry, you know,
to think ill of a young man who has lived so long in Derbyshire.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, if that is all, I have a very poor opinion of young men who live in
Derbyshire; and their intimate friends who live in Hertfordshire are not
much better. I am sick of them all. Thank heaven! I am going to-morrow
where I shall find a man who has not one agreeable quality, who has
neither manners nor sense to recommend him. Stupid men are the only ones
worth knowing, after all.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Before they were separated by the conclusion of the play, she had the
unexpected happiness of an invitation to accompany her uncle and aunt in
a tour of pleasure which they proposed taking in the summer. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> No scheme could have been more agreeable to Elizabeth, and her
acceptance of the invitation was most ready and grateful. “My dear, dear
aunt,” she rapturously cried, “what delight! what felicity! You give me
fresh life and vigour. Adieu to disappointment and spleen. What are men
to rocks and mountains? Oh, what hours of transport we shall spend! And
when we _do_ return, it shall not be like other travellers, without
being able to give one accurate idea of anything. We _will_ know where
we have gone--we _will_ recollect what we have seen. Lakes, mountains,
and rivers, shall not be jumbled together in our imaginations; nor, when
we attempt to describe any particular scene, will we begin quarrelling
about its relative situation. Let _our_ first effusions be less
insupportable than those of the generality of travellers.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Every object in the next day’s journey was new and interesting to
Elizabeth; and her spirits were in a state of enjoyment; for she had
seen her sister looking so well as to banish all fear for her health,
and the prospect of her northern tour was a constant source of delight. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When they left the high road for the lane to Hunsford, every eye was in
search of the Parsonage, and every turning expected to bring it in view.
The paling of Rosings park was their boundary on one side. Elizabeth
smiled at the recollection of all that she had heard of its inhabitants. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> At length the Parsonage was discernible. The garden sloping to the
road, the house standing in it, the green pales and the laurel hedge,
everything declared they were arriving. Mr. Collins and Charlotte
appeared at the door, and the carriage stopped at the small gate, which
led by a short gravel walk to the house, amidst the nods and smiles of
the whole party. In a moment they were all out of the chaise, rejoicing
at the sight of each other. Mrs. Collins welcomed her friend with the
liveliest pleasure, and Elizabeth was more and more satisfied with
coming, when she found herself so affectionately received. She saw
instantly that her cousin’s manners were not altered by his marriage:
his formal civility was just what it had been; and he detained her some
minutes at the gate to hear and satisfy his inquiries after all her
family. They were then, with no other delay than his pointing out the
neatness of the entrance, taken into the house; and as soon as they were
in the parlour, he welcomed them a second time, with ostentatious
formality, to his humble abode, and punctually repeated all his wife’s
offers of refreshment. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth was prepared to see him in his glory; and she could not help
fancying that in displaying the good proportion of the room, its aspect,
and its furniture, he addressed himself particularly to her, as if
wishing to make her feel what she had lost in refusing him. But though
everything seemed neat and comfortable, she was not able to gratify him
by any sigh of repentance; and rather looked with wonder at her friend,
that she could have so cheerful an air with such a companion. When Mr.
Collins said anything of which his wife might reasonably be ashamed,
which certainly was not seldom, she involuntarily turned her eye on
Charlotte. Once or twice she could discern a faint blush; but in general
Charlotte wisely did not hear. After sitting long enough to admire
every article of furniture in the room, from the sideboard to the
fender, to give an account of their journey, and of all that had
happened in London, Mr. Collins invited them to take a stroll in the
garden, which was large and well laid out, and to the cultivation of
which he attended himself. To work in his garden was one of his most
respectable pleasures; and Elizabeth admired the command of countenance
with which Charlotte talked of the healthfulness of the exercise, and
owned she encouraged it as much as possible. Here, leading the way
through every walk and cross walk, and scarcely allowing them an
interval to utter the praises he asked for, every view was pointed out
with a minuteness which left beauty entirely behind. He could number the
fields in every direction, and could tell how many trees there were in
the most distant clump. But of all the views which his garden, or which
the country or the kingdom could boast, none were to be compared with
the prospect of Rosings, afforded by an opening in the trees that
bordered the park nearly opposite the front of his house. It was a
handsome modern building, well situated on rising ground. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> From his garden, Mr. Collins would have led them round his two meadows;
but the ladies, not having shoes to encounter the remains of a white
frost, turned back; and while Sir William accompanied him, Charlotte
took her sister and friend over the house, extremely well pleased,
probably, to have the opportunity of showing it without her husband’s
help. It was rather small, but well built and convenient; and everything
was fitted up and arranged with a neatness and consistency, of which
Elizabeth gave Charlotte all the credit. When Mr. Collins could be
forgotten, there was really a great air of comfort throughout, and by
Charlotte’s evident enjoyment of it, Elizabeth supposed he must be often
forgotten. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She had already learnt that Lady Catherine was still in the country. It
was spoken of again while they were at dinner, when Mr. Collins joining
in, observed,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, Miss Elizabeth, you will have the honour of seeing Lady Catherine
de Bourgh on the ensuing Sunday at church, and I need not say you will
be delighted with her. She is all affability and condescension, and I
doubt not but you will be honoured with some portion of her notice when
service is over. I have scarcely any hesitation in saying that she will
include you and my sister Maria in every invitation with which she
honours us during your stay here. Her behaviour to my dear Charlotte is
charming. We dine at Rosings twice every week, and are never allowed to
walk home. Her Ladyship’s carriage is regularly ordered for us. I
_should_ say, one of her Ladyship’s carriages, for she has several.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Very true, my dear, that is exactly what I say. She is the sort of
woman whom one cannot regard with too much deference.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The evening was spent chiefly in talking over Hertfordshire news, and
telling again what had been already written; and when it closed,
Elizabeth, in the solitude of her chamber, had to meditate upon
Charlotte’s degree of contentment, to understand her address in guiding,
and composure in bearing with, her husband, and to acknowledge that it
was all done very well. She had also to anticipate how her visit would
pass, the quiet tenour of their usual employments, the vexatious
interruptions of Mr. Collins, and the gaieties of their intercourse
with Rosings. A lively imagination soon settled it all. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> About the middle of the next day, as she was in her room getting ready
for a walk, a sudden noise below seemed to speak the whole house in
confusion; and, after listening a moment, she heard somebody running
upstairs in a violent hurry, and calling loudly after her. She opened
the door, and met Maria in the landing-place, who, breathless with
agitation, cried out,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, my dear Eliza! pray make haste and come into the dining-room, for
there is such a sight to be seen! I will not tell you what it is. Make
haste, and come down this moment.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth asked questions in vain; Maria would tell her nothing more;
and down they ran into the dining-room which fronted the lane, in quest
of this wonder; it was two ladies, stopping in a low phaeton at the
garden gate. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And is this all?” cried Elizabeth. “I expected at least that the pigs
were got into the garden, and here is nothing but Lady Catherine and her
daughter!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “La! my dear,” said Maria, quite shocked at the mistake, “it is not Lady
Catherine. The old lady is Mrs. Jenkinson, who lives with them. The
other is Miss De Bourgh. Only look at her. She is quite a little
creature. Who would have thought she could be so thin and small!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I like her appearance,” said Elizabeth, struck with other ideas. “She
looks sickly and cross. Yes, she will do for him very well. She will
make him a very proper wife.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Collins and Charlotte were both standing at the gate in conversation
with the ladies; and Sir William, to Elizabeth’s high diversion, was
stationed in the doorway, in earnest contemplation of the greatness
before him, and constantly bowing whenever Miss De Bourgh looked that
way. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> At length there was nothing more to be said; the ladies drove on, and
the others returned into the house. Mr. Collins no sooner saw the two
girls than he began to congratulate them on their good fortune, which
Charlotte explained by letting them know that the whole party was asked
to dine at Rosings the next day. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Collins’s triumph, in consequence of this invitation, was complete.
The power of displaying the grandeur of his patroness to his wondering
visitors, and of letting them see her civility towards himself and his
wife, was exactly what he had wished for; and that an opportunity of
doing it should be given so soon was such an instance of Lady
Catherine’s condescension as he knew not how to admire enough. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I confess,” said he, “that I should not have been at all surprised by
her Ladyship’s asking us on Sunday to drink tea and spend the evening
at Rosings. I rather expected, from my knowledge of her affability, that
it would happen. But who could have foreseen such an attention as this?
Who could have imagined that we should receive an invitation to dine
there (an invitation, moreover, including the whole party) so
immediately after your arrival?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am the less surprised at what has happened,” replied Sir William,
“from that knowledge of what the manners of the great really are, which
my situation in life has allowed me to acquire. About the court, such
instances of elegant breeding are not uncommon.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Scarcely anything was talked of the whole day or next morning but their
visit to Rosings. Mr. Collins was carefully instructing them in what
they were to expect, that the sight of such rooms, so many servants, and
so splendid a dinner, might not wholly overpower them. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Do not make yourself uneasy, my dear cousin, about your apparel. Lady
Catherine is far from requiring that elegance of dress in us which
becomes herself and daughter. I would advise you merely to put on
whatever of your clothes is superior to the rest--there is no occasion
for anything more. Lady Catherine will not think the worse of you for
being simply dressed. She likes to have the distinction of rank
preserved.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> While they were dressing, he came two or three times to their different
doors, to recommend their being quick, as Lady Catherine very much
objected to be kept waiting for her dinner. Such formidable accounts of
her Ladyship, and her manner of living, quite frightened Maria Lucas,
who had been little used to company; and she looked forward to her
introduction at Rosings with as much apprehension as her father had done
to his presentation at St. James’s. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As the weather was fine, they had a pleasant walk of about half a mile
across the park. Every park has its beauty and its prospects; and
Elizabeth saw much to be pleased with, though she could not be in such
raptures as Mr. Collins expected the scene to inspire, and was but
slightly affected by his enumeration of the windows in front of the
house, and his relation of what the glazing altogether had originally
cost Sir Lewis de Bourgh. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When they ascended the steps to the hall, Maria’s alarm was every moment
increasing, and even Sir William did not look perfectly calm.
Elizabeth’s courage did not fail her. She had heard nothing of Lady
Catherine that spoke her awful from any extraordinary talents or
miraculous virtue, and the mere stateliness of money and rank she
thought she could witness without trepidation. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> From the entrance hall, of which Mr. Collins pointed out, with a
rapturous air, the fine proportion and finished ornaments, they followed
the servants through an antechamber to the room where Lady Catherine,
her daughter, and Mrs. Jenkinson were sitting. Her Ladyship, with great
condescension, arose to receive them; and as Mrs. Collins had settled it
with her husband that the office of introduction should be hers, it was
performed in a proper manner, without any of those apologies and thanks
which he would have thought necessary. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In spite of having been at St. James’s, Sir William was so completely
awed by the grandeur surrounding him, that he had but just courage
enough to make a very low bow, and take his seat without saying a word;
and his daughter, frightened almost out of her senses, sat on the edge
of her chair, not knowing which way to look. Elizabeth found herself
quite equal to the scene, and could observe the three ladies before her
composedly. Lady Catherine was a tall, large woman, with strongly-marked
features, which might once have been handsome. Her air was not
conciliating, nor was her manner of receiving them such as to make her
visitors forget their inferior rank. She was not rendered formidable by
silence: but whatever she said was spoken in so authoritative a tone as
marked her self-importance, and brought Mr. Wickham immediately to
Elizabeth’s mind; and, from the observation of the day altogether, she
believed Lady Catherine to be exactly what he had represented. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When, after examining the mother, in whose countenance and deportment
she soon found some resemblance of Mr. Darcy, she turned her eyes on the
daughter, she could almost have joined in Maria’s astonishment at her
being so thin and so small. There was neither in figure nor face any
likeness between the ladies. Miss de Bourgh was pale and sickly: her
features, though not plain, were insignificant; and she spoke very
little, except in a low voice, to Mrs. Jenkinson, in whose appearance
there was nothing remarkable, and who was entirely engaged in listening
to what she said, and placing a screen in the proper direction before
her eyes. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> After sitting a few minutes, they were all sent to one of the windows to
admire the view, Mr. Collins attending them to point out its beauties,
and Lady Catherine kindly informing them that it was much better worth
looking at in the summer. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The dinner was exceedingly handsome, and there were all the servants,
and all the articles of plate which Mr. Collins had promised; and, as he
had likewise foretold, he took his seat at the bottom of the table, by
her Ladyship’s desire, and looked as if he felt that life could furnish
nothing greater. He carved and ate and praised with delighted alacrity;
and every dish was commended first by him, and then by Sir William, who
was now enough recovered to echo whatever his son-in-law said, in a
manner which Elizabeth wondered Lady Catherine could bear. But Lady
Catherine seemed gratified by their excessive admiration, and gave most
gracious smiles, especially when any dish on the table proved a novelty
to them. The party did not supply much conversation. Elizabeth was ready
to speak whenever there was an opening, but she was seated between
Charlotte and Miss de Bourgh--the former of whom was engaged in
listening to Lady Catherine, and the latter said not a word to her all
the dinnertime. Mrs. Jenkinson was chiefly employed in watching how
little Miss de Bourgh ate, pressing her to try some other dish and
fearing she was indisposed. Maria thought speaking out of the question,
and the gentlemen did nothing but eat and admire. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When the ladies returned to the drawing-room, there was little to be
done but to hear Lady Catherine talk, which she did without any
intermission till coffee came in, delivering her opinion on every
subject in so decisive a manner as proved that she was not used to have
her judgment controverted. She inquired into Charlotte’s domestic
concerns familiarly and minutely, and gave her a great deal of advice as
to the management of them all; told her how everything ought to be
regulated in so small a family as hers, and instructed her as to the
care of her cows and her poultry. Elizabeth found that nothing was
beneath this great lady’s attention which could furnish her with an
occasion for dictating to others. In the intervals of her discourse with
Mrs. Collins, she addressed a variety of questions to Maria and
Elizabeth, but especially to the latter, of whose connections she knew
the least, and who, she observed to Mrs. Collins, was a very genteel,
pretty kind of girl. She asked her at different times how many sisters
she had, whether they were older or younger than herself, whether any of
them were likely to be married, whether they were handsome, where they
had been educated, what carriage her father kept, and what had been her
mother’s maiden name? Elizabeth felt all the impertinence of her
questions, but answered them very composedly. Lady Catherine then
observed,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Your father’s estate is entailed on Mr. Collins, I think? For your
sake,” turning to Charlotte, “I am glad of it; but otherwise I see no
occasion for entailing estates from the female line. It was not thought
necessary in Sir Lewis de Bourgh’s family. Do you play and sing, Miss
Bennet?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh then--some time or other we shall be happy to hear you. Our
instrument is a capital one, probably superior to ---- you shall try it
some day. Do your sisters play and sing?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Why did not you all learn? You ought all to have learned. The Miss
Webbs all play, and their father has not so good an income as yours. Do
you draw?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That is very strange. But I suppose you had no opportunity. Your mother
should have taken you to town every spring for the benefit of masters.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No governess! How was that possible? Five daughters brought up at home
without a governess! I never heard of such a thing. Your mother must
have been quite a slave to your education.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Compared with some families, I believe we were; but such of us as
wished to learn never wanted the means. We were always encouraged to
read, and had all the masters that were necessary. Those who chose to be
idle certainly might.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Ay, no doubt: but that is what a governess will prevent; and if I had
known your mother, I should have advised her most strenuously to engage
one. I always say that nothing is to be done in education without steady
and regular instruction, and nobody but a governess can give it. It is
wonderful how many families I have been the means of supplying in that
way. I am always glad to get a young person well placed out. Four nieces
of Mrs. Jenkinson are most delightfully situated through my means; and
it was but the other day that I recommended another young person, who
was merely accidentally mentioned to me, and the family are quite
delighted with her. Mrs. Collins, did I tell you of Lady Metcalfe’s
calling yesterday to thank me? She finds Miss Pope a treasure. ‘Lady
Catherine,’ said she, ‘you have given me a treasure.’ Are any of your
younger sisters out, Miss Bennet?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “All! What, all five out at once? Very odd! And you only the second. The
younger ones out before the elder are married! Your younger sisters must
be very young?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, my youngest is not sixteen. Perhaps _she_ is full young to be much
in company. But really, ma’am, I think it would be very hard upon
younger sisters that they should not have their share of society and
amusement, because the elder may not have the means or inclination to
marry early. The last born has as good a right to the pleasures of youth
as the first. And to be kept back on _such_ a motive! I think it would
not be very likely to promote sisterly affection or delicacy of mind.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Upon my word,” said her Ladyship, “you give your opinion very decidedly
for so young a person. Pray, what is your age?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Lady Catherine seemed quite astonished at not receiving a direct answer;
and Elizabeth suspected herself to be the first creature who had ever
dared to trifle with so much dignified impertinence. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When the gentlemen had joined them, and tea was over, the card tables
were placed. Lady Catherine, Sir William, and Mr. and Mrs. Collins sat
down to quadrille; and as Miss De Bourgh chose to play at cassino, the
two girls had the honour of assisting Mrs. Jenkinson to make up her
party. Their table was superlatively stupid. Scarcely a syllable was
uttered that did not relate to the game, except when Mrs. Jenkinson
expressed her fears of Miss De Bourgh’s being too hot or too cold, or
having too much or too little light. A great deal more passed at the
other table. Lady Catherine was generally speaking--stating the mistakes
of the three others, or relating some anecdote of herself. Mr. Collins
was employed in agreeing to everything her Ladyship said, thanking her
for every fish he won, and apologizing if he thought he won too many.
Sir William did not say much. He was storing his memory with anecdotes
and noble names. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When Lady Catherine and her daughter had played as long as they chose,
the tables were broken up, the carriage was offered to Mrs. Collins,
gratefully accepted, and immediately ordered. The party then gathered
round the fire to hear Lady Catherine determine what weather they were
to have on the morrow. From these instructions they were summoned by the
arrival of the coach; and with many speeches of thankfulness on Mr.
Collins’s side, and as many bows on Sir William’s, they departed. As
soon as they had driven from the door, Elizabeth was called on by her
cousin to give her opinion of all that she had seen at Rosings, which,
for Charlotte’s sake, she made more favourable than it really was. But
her commendation, though costing her some trouble, could by no means
satisfy Mr. Collins, and he was very soon obliged to take her Ladyship’s
praise into his own hands. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Sir William stayed only a week at Hunsford; but his visit was long
enough to convince him of his daughter’s being most comfortably settled,
and of her possessing such a husband and such a neighbour as were not
often met with. While Sir William was with them, Mr. Collins devoted his
mornings to driving him out in his gig, and showing him the country: but
when he went away, the whole family returned to their usual employments,
and Elizabeth was thankful to find that they did not see more of her
cousin by the alteration; for the chief of the time between breakfast
and dinner was now passed by him either at work in the garden, or in
reading and writing, and looking out of window in his own book room,
which fronted the road. The room in which the ladies sat was backwards.
Elizabeth at first had rather wondered that Charlotte should not prefer
the dining parlour for common use; it was a better sized room, and had a
pleasanter aspect: but she soon saw that her friend had an excellent
reason for what she did, for Mr. Collins would undoubtedly have been
much less in his own apartment had they sat in one equally lively; and
she gave Charlotte credit for the arrangement. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> From the drawing-room they could distinguish nothing in the lane, and
were indebted to Mr. Collins for the knowledge of what carriages went
along, and how often especially Miss De Bourgh drove by in her phaeton,
which he never failed coming to inform them of, though it happened
almost every day. She not unfrequently stopped at the Parsonage, and had
a few minutes’ conversation with Charlotte, but was scarcely ever
prevailed on to get out. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Very few days passed in which Mr. Collins did not walk to Rosings, and
not many in which his wife did not think it necessary to go likewise;
and till Elizabeth recollected that there might be other family livings
to be disposed of, she could not understand the sacrifice of so many
hours. Now and then they were honoured with a call from her Ladyship,
and nothing escaped her observation that was passing in the room during
these visits. She examined into their employments, looked at their work,
and advised them to do it differently; found fault with the arrangement
of the furniture, or detected the housemaid in negligence; and if she
accepted any refreshment, seemed to do it only for the sake of finding
out that Mrs. Collins’s joints of meat were too large for her family. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth soon perceived, that though this great lady was not in the
commission of the peace for the county, she was a most active magistrate
in her own parish, the minutest concerns of which were carried to her by
Mr. Collins; and whenever any of the cottagers were disposed to be
quarrelsome, discontented, or too poor, she sallied forth into the
village to settle their differences, silence their complaints, and scold
them into harmony and plenty. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The entertainment of dining at Rosings was repeated about twice a week;
and, allowing for the loss of Sir William, and there being only one
card-table in the evening, every such entertainment was the counterpart
of the first. Their other engagements were few, as the style of living
of the neighbourhood in general was beyond the Collinses’ reach. This,
however, was no evil to Elizabeth, and upon the whole she spent her time
comfortably enough: there were half hours of pleasant conversation with
Charlotte, and the weather was so fine for the time of year, that she
had often great enjoyment out of doors. Her favourite walk, and where
she frequently went while the others were calling on Lady Catherine, was
along the open grove which edged that side of the park, where there was
a nice sheltered path, which no one seemed to value but herself, and
where she felt beyond the reach of Lady Catherine’s curiosity. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In this quiet way the first fortnight of her visit soon passed away.
Easter was approaching, and the week preceding it was to bring an
addition to the family at Rosings, which in so small a circle must be
important. Elizabeth had heard, soon after her arrival, that Mr. Darcy
was expected there in the course of a few weeks; and though there were
not many of her acquaintance whom she did not prefer, his coming would
furnish one comparatively new to look at in their Rosings parties, and
she might be amused in seeing how hopeless Miss Bingley’s designs on him
were, by his behaviour to his cousin, for whom he was evidently destined
by Lady Catherine, who talked of his coming with the greatest
satisfaction, spoke of him in terms of the highest admiration, and
seemed almost angry to find that he had already been frequently seen by
Miss Lucas and herself. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> His arrival was soon known at the Parsonage; for Mr. Collins was walking
the whole morning within view of the lodges opening into Hunsford Lane,
in order to have </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> the earliest assurance of it; and, after making his bow as the carriage
turned into the park, hurried home with the great intelligence. On the
following morning he hastened to Rosings to pay his respects. There were
two nephews of Lady Catherine to require them, for Mr. Darcy had brought
with him a Colonel Fitzwilliam, the younger son of his uncle, Lord ----;
and, to the great surprise of all the party, when Mr. Collins returned,
the gentlemen accompanied him. Charlotte had seen them from her
husband’s room, crossing the road, and immediately running into the
other, told the girls what an honour they might expect, adding,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I may thank you, Eliza, for this piece of civility. Mr. Darcy would
never have come so soon to wait upon me.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth had scarcely time to disclaim all right to the compliment
before their approach was announced by the door-bell, and shortly
afterwards the three gentlemen entered the room. Colonel Fitzwilliam,
who led the way, was about thirty, not handsome, but in person and
address most truly the gentleman. Mr. Darcy looked just as he had been
used to look in Hertfordshire, paid his compliments, with his usual
reserve, to Mrs. Collins; and whatever might be his feelings towards her
friend, met her with every appearance of composure. Elizabeth merely
courtesied to him, without saying a word. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Colonel Fitzwilliam entered into conversation directly, with the
readiness and ease of a well-bred man, and talked very pleasantly; but
his cousin, after having addressed a slight observation on the house and
garden to Mrs. Collins, sat for some time without speaking to anybody.
At length, however, his civility was so far awakened as to inquire of
Elizabeth after the health of her family. She answered him in the usual
way; and, after a moment’s pause, added,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She was perfectly sensible that he never had: but she wished to see
whether he would betray any consciousness of what had passed between the
Bingleys and Jane; and she thought he looked a little confused as he
answered that he had never been so fortunate as to meet Miss Bennet. The
subject was pursued no further, and the gentlemen soon afterwards went
away. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Colonel Fitzwilliam’s manners were very much admired at the Parsonage,
and the ladies all felt that he must add considerably to the pleasure of
their engagements at Rosings. It was some days, however, before they
received any invitation thither, for while there were visitors in the
house they could not be necessary; and it was not till Easter-day,
almost a week after the gentlemen’s arrival, that they were honoured by
such an attention, and then they were merely asked on leaving church to
come there in the evening. For the last week they had seen very little
of either Lady Catherine or her daughter. Colonel Fitzwilliam had called
at the Parsonage more than once during the time, but Mr. Darcy they had
only seen at church. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The invitation was accepted, of course, and at a proper hour they joined
the party in Lady Catherine’s drawing-room. Her Ladyship received them
civilly, but it was plain that their company was by no means so
acceptable as when she could get nobody else; and she was, in fact,
almost engrossed by her nephews, speaking to them, especially to Darcy,
much more than to any other person in the room. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Colonel Fitzwilliam seemed really glad to see them: anything was a
welcome relief to him at Rosings; and Mrs. Collins’s pretty friend had,
moreover, caught his fancy very much. He now seated himself by her, and
talked so agreeably of Kent and Hertfordshire, of travelling and staying
at home, of new books and music, that Elizabeth had never been half so
well entertained in that room before; and they conversed with so much
spirit and flow as to draw the attention of Lady Catherine herself, as
well as of Mr. Darcy. _His_ eyes had been soon and repeatedly turned
towards them with a look of curiosity; and that her Ladyship, after a
while, shared the feeling, was more openly acknowledged, for she did not
scruple to call out,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “What is that you are saying, Fitzwilliam? What is it you are talking
of? What are you telling Miss Bennet? Let me hear what it is.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Of music! Then pray speak aloud. It is of all subjects my delight. I
must have my share in the conversation, if you are speaking of music.
There are few people in England, I suppose, who have more true
enjoyment of music than myself, or a better natural taste. If I had ever
learnt, I should have been a great proficient. And so would Anne, if her
health had allowed her to apply. I am confident that she would have
performed delightfully. How does Georgiana get on, Darcy?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am very glad to hear such a good account of her,” said Lady
Catherine; “and pray tell her from me, that she cannot expect to excel,
if she does not practise a great deal.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “So much the better. It cannot be done too much; and when I next write
to her, I shall charge her not to neglect it on any account. I often
tell young ladies, that no excellence in music is to be acquired without
constant practice. I have told Miss Bennet several times, that she will
never play really well, unless she practises more; and though Mrs.
Collins has no instrument, she is very welcome, as I have often told
her, to come to Rosings every day, and play on the pianoforte in Mrs.
Jenkinson’s room. She would be in nobody’s way, you know, in that part
of the house.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When coffee was over, Colonel Fitzwilliam reminded Elizabeth of having
promised to play to him; and she sat down directly to the instrument. He
drew a chair near her. Lady Catherine listened to half a song, and then
talked, as before, to her other nephew; till the latter walked away from
her, and moving with his usual deliberation towards the pianoforte,
stationed himself so as to command a full view of the fair performer’s
countenance. Elizabeth saw what he was doing, and at the first
convenient pause turned to him with an arch smile, and said,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You mean to frighten me, Mr. Darcy, by coming in all this state to hear
me. But I will not be alarmed, though your sister _does_ play so well.
There is a stubbornness about me that never can bear to be frightened at
the will of others. My courage always rises with every attempt to
intimidate me.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I shall not say that you are mistaken,” he replied, “because you could
not really believe me to entertain any design of alarming you; and I
have had the pleasure of your acquaintance long enough to know, that you
find great enjoyment in occasionally professing opinions which, in fact,
are not your own.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth laughed heartily at this picture of herself, and said to
Colonel Fitzwilliam, “Your cousin will give you a very pretty notion of
me, and teach you not to believe a word I say. I am particularly unlucky
in meeting with a person so well able to expose my real character, in a
part of the world where I had hoped to pass myself off with some degree
of credit. Indeed, Mr. Darcy, it is very ungenerous in you to mention
all that you knew to my disadvantage in Hertfordshire--and, give me
leave to say, very impolitic too--for it is provoking me to retaliate,
and such things may come out as will shock your relations to hear.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Pray let me hear what you have to accuse him of,” cried Colonel
Fitzwilliam. “I should like to know how he behaves among strangers.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You shall hear, then--but prepare for something very dreadful. The
first time of my ever seeing him in Hertfordshire, you must know, was at
a ball--and at this ball, what do you think he did? He danced only four
dances! I am sorry to pain you, but so it was. He danced only four
dances, though gentlemen were scarce; and, to my certain knowledge, more
than one young lady was sitting down in want of a partner. Mr. Darcy,
you cannot deny the fact.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “True; and nobody can ever be introduced in a ball-room. Well, Colonel
Fitzwilliam, what do I play next? My fingers wait your orders.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Perhaps,” said Darcy, “I should have judged better had I sought an
introduction, but I am ill-qualified to recommend myself to strangers.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Shall we ask your cousin the reason of this?” said Elizabeth, still
addressing Colonel Fitzwilliam. “Shall we ask him why a man of sense and
education, and who has lived in the world, is ill-qualified to recommend
himself to strangers?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I can answer your question,” said Fitzwilliam, “without applying to
him. It is because he will not give himself the trouble.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I certainly have not the talent which some people possess,” said Darcy,
“of conversing easily with those I have never seen before. I cannot
catch their tone of conversation, or appear interested in their
concerns, as I often see done.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My fingers,” said Elizabeth, “do not move over this instrument in the
masterly manner which I see so many women’s do. They have not the same
force or rapidity, and do not produce the same expression. But then I
have always supposed it to be my own fault--because I would not take
the trouble of practising. It is not that I do not believe _my_ fingers
as capable as any other woman’s of superior execution.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Darcy smiled and said, “You are perfectly right. You have employed your
time much better. No one admitted to the privilege of hearing you can
think anything wanting. We neither of us perform to strangers.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Here they were interrupted by Lady Catherine, who called out to know
what they were talking of. Elizabeth immediately began playing again.
Lady Catherine approached, and, after listening for a few minutes, said
to Darcy,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Miss Bennet would not play at all amiss if she practised more, and
could have the advantage of a London master. She has a very good notion
of fingering, though her taste is not equal to Anne’s. Anne would have
been a delightful performer, had her health allowed her to learn.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth looked at Darcy, to see how cordially he assented to his
cousin’s praise: but neither at that moment nor at any other could she
discern any symptom of love; and from the whole of his behaviour to Miss
De Bourgh she derived this comfort for Miss Bingley, that he might have
been just as likely to marry _her_, had she been his relation. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Lady Catherine continued her remarks on Elizabeth’s performance, mixing
with them many instructions on execution and taste. Elizabeth received
them with all the forbearance of civility; and at the request of the
gentlemen remained at the instrument till her Ladyship’s carriage was
ready to take them all home. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth was sitting by herself the next morning, and writing to Jane,
while Mrs. Collins and Maria were gone on business into the village,
when she was startled by a ring at the door, the certain signal of a
visitor. As she had heard no carriage, she thought it not unlikely to be
Lady Catherine; and under that apprehension was putting away her
half-finished letter, that she might escape all impertinent questions,
when the door opened, and to her very great surprise Mr. Darcy, and Mr.
Darcy only, entered the room. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He seemed astonished too on finding her alone, and apologized for his
intrusion, by letting her know that he had understood all the ladies to
be within. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> They then sat down, and when her inquiries after Rosings were made,
seemed in danger of sinking into total silence. It was absolutely
necessary, therefore, to think of something; and in this emergency
recollecting _when_ she had seen him last in Hertfordshire, and feeling
curious to know what he would say on the subject of their hasty
departure, she observed,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “How very suddenly you all quitted Netherfield last November, Mr. Darcy!
It must have been a most agreeable surprise to Mr. Bingley to see you
all after him so soon; for, if I recollect right, he went but the day
before. He and his sisters were well, I hope, when you left London?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have never heard him say so; but it is probable that he may spend
very little of his time there in future. He has many friends, and he is
at a time of life when friends and engagements are continually
increasing.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If he means to be but little at Netherfield, it would be better for the
neighbourhood that he should give up the place entirely, for then we
might possibly get a settled family there. But, perhaps, Mr. Bingley did
not take the house so much for the convenience of the neighbourhood as
for his own, and we must expect him to keep or quit it on the same
principle.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I should not be surprised,” said Darcy, “if he were to give it up as
soon as any eligible purchase offers.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth made no answer. She was afraid of talking longer of his
friend; and, having nothing else to say, was now determined to leave the
trouble of finding a subject to him. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He took the hint and soon began with, “This seems a very comfortable
house. Lady Catherine, I believe, did a great deal to it when Mr.
Collins first came to Hunsford.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, indeed; his friends may well rejoice in his having met with one of
the very few sensible women who would have accepted him, or have made
him happy if they had. My friend has an excellent understanding--though
I am not certain that I consider her marrying Mr. Collins as the wisest
thing she ever did. She seems perfectly happy, however; and, in a
prudential light, it is certainly a very good match for her.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It must be very agreeable to her to be settled within so easy a
distance of her own family and friends.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And what is fifty miles of good road? Little more than half a day’s
journey. Yes, I call it a very easy distance.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I should never have considered the distance as one of the _advantages_
of the match,” cried Elizabeth. “I should never have said Mrs. Collins
was settled _near_ her family.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is a proof of your own attachment to Hertfordshire. Anything beyond
the very neighbourhood of Longbourn, I suppose, would appear far.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As he spoke there was a sort of smile, which Elizabeth fancied she
understood; he must be supposing her to be thinking of Jane and
Netherfield, and she blushed as she answered,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I do not mean to say that a woman may not be settled too near her
family. The far and the near must be relative, and depend on many
varying circumstances. Where there is fortune to make the expense of
travelling unimportant, distance becomes no evil. But that is not the
case _here_. Mr. and Mrs. Collins have a comfortable income, but not
such a one as will allow of frequent journeys--and I am persuaded my
friend would not call herself _near_ her family under less than _half_
the present distance.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Darcy drew his chair a little towards her, and said, “_You_ cannot
have a right to such very strong local attachment. _You_ cannot have
been always at Longbourn.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth looked surprised. The gentleman experienced some change of
feeling; he drew back his chair, took a newspaper from the table, and,
glancing over it, said, in a colder voice,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> A short dialogue on the subject of the country ensued, on either side
calm and concise--and soon put an end to by the entrance of Charlotte
and her sister, just returned from their walk. The _tête-à-tête_
surprised them. Mr. Darcy related the mistake which had occasioned his
intruding on Miss Bennet, and, after sitting a few minutes longer,
without saying much to anybody, went away. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “What can be the meaning of this?” said Charlotte, as soon as he was
gone. “My dear Eliza, he must be in love with you, or he would never
have called on us in this familiar way.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But when Elizabeth told of his silence, it did not seem very likely,
even to Charlotte’s wishes, to be the case; and, after various
conjectures, they could at last only suppose his visit to proceed from
the difficulty of finding anything to do, which was the more probable
from the time of year. All field sports were over. Within doors there
was Lady Catherine, books, and a billiard table, but gentlemen cannot be
always within doors; and in the nearness of the Parsonage, or the
pleasantness of the walk to it, or of the people who lived in it, the
two cousins found a temptation from this period of walking thither
almost every day. They called at various times of the morning, sometimes
separately, sometimes together, and now and then accompanied by their
aunt. It was plain to them all that Colonel Fitzwilliam came because he
had pleasure in their society, a persuasion which of course recommended
him still more; and Elizabeth was reminded by her own satisfaction in
being with him, as well as by his evident admiration, of her former
favourite, George Wickham; and though, in comparing them, she saw there
was less captivating softness in Colonel Fitzwilliam’s manners, she
believed he might have the best informed mind. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But why Mr. Darcy came so often to the Parsonage it was more difficult
to understand. It could not be for society, as he frequently sat there
ten minutes together without opening his lips; and when he did speak, it
seemed the effect of necessity rather than of choice--a sacrifice to
propriety, not a pleasure to himself. He seldom appeared really
animated. Mrs. Collins knew not what to make of him. Colonel
Fitzwilliam’s occasionally laughing at his stupidity proved that he was
generally different, which her own knowledge of him could not have told
her; and as she would have liked to believe this change the effect of
love, and the object of that love her friend Eliza, she set herself
seriously to work to find it out: she watched him whenever they were at
Rosings, and whenever he came to Hunsford; but without much success. He
certainly looked at her friend a great deal, but the expression of that
look was disputable. It was an earnest, steadfast gaze, but she often
doubted whether there were much admiration in it, and sometimes it
seemed nothing but absence of mind. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She had once or twice suggested to Elizabeth the possibility of his
being partial to her, but Elizabeth always laughed at the idea; and Mrs.
Collins did not think it right to press the subject, from the danger of
raising expectations which might only end in disappointment; for in her
opinion it admitted not of a doubt, that all her friend’s dislike would
vanish, if she could suppose him to be in her power. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In her kind schemes for Elizabeth, she sometimes planned her marrying
Colonel Fitzwilliam. He was, beyond comparison, the pleasantest man: he
certainly admired her, and his situation in life was most eligible; but,
to counterbalance these advantages, Mr. Darcy had considerable patronage
in the church, and his cousin could have none at all. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> More than once did Elizabeth, in her ramble within the park,
unexpectedly meet Mr. Darcy. She felt all the perverseness of the
mischance that should bring him where no one else was brought; and, to
prevent its ever happening again, took care to inform him, at first,
that it was a favourite haunt of hers. How it could occur a second time,
therefore, was very odd! Yet it did, and even the third. It seemed like
wilful ill-nature, or a voluntary penance; for on these occasions it was
not merely a few formal inquiries and an awkward pause and then away,
but he actually thought it necessary to turn back and walk with her. He
never said a great deal, nor did she give herself the trouble of talking
or of listening much; but it struck her in the course of their third
encounter that he was asking some odd unconnected questions--about her
pleasure in being at Hunsford, her love of solitary walks, and her
opinion of Mr. and Mrs. Collins’s happiness; and that in speaking of
Rosings, and her not perfectly understanding the house, he seemed to
expect that whenever she came into Kent again she would be staying
_there_ too. His words seemed to imply it. Could he have Colonel
Fitzwilliam in his thoughts? She supposed, if he meant anything, he must
mean an allusion to what might arise in that quarter. It distressed her
a little, and she was quite glad to find herself at the gate in the
pales opposite the Parsonage. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She was engaged one day, as she walked, in re-perusing Jane’s last
letter, and dwelling on some passages which proved that Jane had not
written in spirits, when, instead of being again surprised by Mr. Darcy,
she saw, on looking up, that Colonel Fitzwilliam was meeting her.
Putting away the letter immediately, and forcing a smile, she said,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have been making the tour of the park,” he replied, “as I generally
do every year, and intended to close it with a call at the Parsonage.
Are you going much farther?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes--if Darcy does not put it off again. But I am at his disposal. He
arranges the business just as he pleases.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And if not able to please himself in the arrangement, he has at least
great pleasure in the power of choice. I do not know anybody who seems
more to enjoy the power of doing what he likes than Mr. Darcy.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He likes to have his own way very well,” replied Colonel Fitzwilliam.
“But so we all do. It is only that he has better means of having it than
many others, because he is rich, and many others are poor. I speak
feelingly. A younger son, you know, must be inured to self-denial and
dependence.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “In my opinion, the younger son of an earl can know very little of
either. Now, seriously, what have you ever known of self-denial and
dependence? When have you been prevented by want of money from going
wherever you chose or procuring anything you had a fancy for?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “These are home questions--and perhaps I cannot say that I have
experienced many hardships of that nature. But in matters of greater
weight, I may suffer from the want of money. Younger sons cannot marry
where they like.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Our habits of expense make us too dependent, and there are not many in
my rank of life who can afford to marry without some attention to
money.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Is this,” thought Elizabeth, “meant for me?” and she coloured at the
idea; but, recovering herself, said in a lively tone, “And pray, what is
the usual price of an earl’s younger son? Unless the elder brother is
very sickly, I suppose you would not ask above fifty thousand pounds.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He answered her in the same style, and the subject dropped. To interrupt
a silence which might make him fancy her affected with what had passed,
she soon afterwards said,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I imagine your cousin brought you down with him chiefly for the sake of
having somebody at his disposal. I wonder he does not marry, to secure a
lasting convenience of that kind. But, perhaps, his sister does as well
for the present; and, as she is under his sole care, he may do what he
likes with her.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No,” said Colonel Fitzwilliam, “that is an advantage which he must
divide with me. I am joined with him in the guardianship of Miss Darcy.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Are you, indeed? And pray what sort of a guardian do you make? Does
your charge give you much trouble? Young ladies of her age are sometimes
a little difficult to manage; and if she has the true Darcy spirit, she
may like to have her own way.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As she spoke, she observed him looking at her earnestly; and the manner
in which he immediately asked her why she supposed Miss Darcy likely to
give them any uneasiness, convinced her that she had somehow or other
got pretty near the truth. She directly replied,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You need not be frightened. I never heard any harm of her; and I dare
say she is one of the most tractable creatures in the world. She is a
very great favourite with some ladies of my acquaintance, Mrs. Hurst and
Miss Bingley. I think I have heard you say that you know them.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh yes,” said Elizabeth drily--“Mr. Darcy is uncommonly kind to Mr.
Bingley, and takes a prodigious deal of care of him.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Care of him! Yes, I really believe Darcy _does_ take care of him in
those points where he most wants care. From something that he told me
in our journey hither, I have reason to think Bingley very much indebted
to him. But I ought to beg his pardon, for I have no right to suppose
that Bingley was the person meant. It was all conjecture.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is a circumstance which Darcy of course could not wish to be
generally known, because if it were to get round to the lady’s family it
would be an unpleasant thing.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And remember that I have not much reason for supposing it to be
Bingley. What he told me was merely this: that he congratulated himself
on having lately saved a friend from the inconveniences of a most
imprudent marriage, but without mentioning names or any other
particulars; and I only suspected it to be Bingley from believing him
the kind of young man to get into a scrape of that sort, and from
knowing them to have been together the whole of last summer.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He did not talk to me of his own arts,” said Fitzwilliam, smiling. “He
only told me what I have now told you.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth made no answer, and walked on, her heart swelling with
indignation. After watching her a little, Fitzwilliam asked her why she
was so thoughtful. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am thinking of what you have been telling me,” said she. “Your
cousin’s conduct does not suit my feelings. Why was he to be the
judge?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I do not see what right Mr. Darcy had to decide on the propriety of his
friend’s inclination; or why, upon his own judgment alone, he was to
determine and direct in what manner that friend was to be happy. But,”
she continued, recollecting herself, “as we know none of the
particulars, it is not fair to condemn him. It is not to be supposed
that there was much affection in the case.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This was spoken jestingly, but it appeared to her so just a picture of
Mr. Darcy, that she would not trust herself with an answer; and,
therefore, abruptly changing the conversation, talked on indifferent
matters till they reached the Parsonage. There, shut into her own room,
as soon as their visitor left them, she could think without interruption
of all that she had heard. It was not to be supposed that any other
people could be meant than those with whom she was connected. There
could not exist in the world _two_ men over whom Mr. Darcy could have
such boundless influence. That he had been concerned in the measures
taken to separate Mr. Bingley and Jane, she had never doubted; but she
had always attributed to Miss Bingley the principal design and
arrangement of them. If his own vanity, however, did not mislead him,
_he_ was the cause--his pride and caprice were the cause--of all that
Jane had suffered, and still continued to suffer. He had ruined for a
while every hope of happiness for the most affectionate, generous heart
in the world; and no one could say how lasting an evil he might have
inflicted. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “There were some very strong objections against the lady,” were Colonel
Fitzwilliam’s words; and these strong objections probably were, her
having one uncle who was a country attorney, and another who was in
business in London. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “To Jane herself,” she exclaimed, “there could be no possibility of
objection,--all loveliness and goodness as she is! Her understanding
excellent, her mind improved, and her manners captivating. Neither could
anything be urged against my father, who, though with some
peculiarities, has abilities which Mr. Darcy himself need not disdain,
and respectability which he will probably never reach.” When she thought
of her mother, indeed, her confidence gave way a little; but she would
not allow that any objections _there_ had material weight with Mr.
Darcy, whose pride, she was convinced, would receive a deeper wound from
the want of importance in his friend’s connections than from their want
of sense; and she was quite decided, at last, that he had been partly
governed by this worst kind of pride, and partly by the wish of
retaining Mr. Bingley for his sister. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The agitation and tears which the subject occasioned brought on a
headache; and it grew so much worse towards the evening that, added to
her unwillingness to see Mr. Darcy, it determined her not to attend her
cousins to Rosings, where they were engaged to drink tea. Mrs. Collins,
seeing that she was really unwell, did not press her to go, and as much
as possible prevented her husband from pressing her; but Mr. Collins
could not conceal his apprehension of Lady Catherine’s being rather
displeased by her staying at home. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When they were gone, Elizabeth, as if intending to exasperate herself as
much as possible against Mr. Darcy, chose for her employment the
examination of all the letters which Jane had written to her since her
being in Kent. They contained no actual complaint, nor was there any
revival of past occurrences, or any communication of present suffering.
But in all, and in almost every line of each, there was a want of that
cheerfulness which had been used to characterize her style, and which,
proceeding from the serenity of a mind at ease with itself, and kindly
disposed towards everyone, had been scarcely ever clouded. Elizabeth
noticed every sentence conveying the idea of uneasiness, with an
attention which it had hardly received on the first perusal. Mr. Darcy’s
shameful boast of what misery he had been able to inflict gave her a
keener sense of her sister’s sufferings. It was some consolation to
think that his visit to Rosings was to end on the day after the next,
and a still greater that in less than a fortnight she should herself be
with Jane again, and enabled to contribute to the recovery of her
spirits, by all that affection could do. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She could not think of Darcy’s leaving Kent without remembering that his
cousin was to go with him; but Colonel Fitzwilliam had made it clear
that he had no intentions at all, and, agreeable as he was, she did not
mean to be unhappy about him. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> While settling this point, she was suddenly roused by the sound of the
door-bell; and her spirits were a little fluttered by the idea of its
being Colonel Fitzwilliam himself, who had once before called late in
the evening, and might now come to inquire particularly after her. But
this idea was soon banished, and her spirits were very differently
affected, when, to her utter amazement, she saw Mr. Darcy walk into the
room. In a hurried manner he immediately began an inquiry after her
health, imputing his visit to a wish of hearing that she were better.
She answered him with cold civility. He sat down for a few moments, and
then getting up walked about the room. Elizabeth was surprised, but
said not a word. After a silence of several minutes, he came towards her
in an agitated manner, and thus began:-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “In vain have I struggled. It will not do. My feelings will not be
repressed. You must allow me to tell you how ardently I admire and love
you.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth’s astonishment was beyond expression. She stared, coloured,
doubted, and was silent. This he considered sufficient encouragement,
and the avowal of all that he felt and had long felt for her immediately
followed. He spoke well; but there were feelings besides those of the
heart to be detailed, and he was not more eloquent on the subject of
tenderness than of pride. His sense of her inferiority, of its being a
degradation, of the family obstacles which judgment had always opposed
to inclination, were dwelt on with a warmth which seemed due to the
consequence he was wounding, but was very unlikely to recommend his
suit. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In spite of her deeply-rooted dislike, she could not be insensible to
the compliment of such a man’s affection, and though her intentions did
not vary for an instant, she was at first sorry for the pain he was to
receive; till roused to resentment by his subsequent language, she lost
all compassion in anger. She tried, however, to compose herself to
answer him with patience, when he should have done. He concluded with
representing to her the strength of that attachment which in spite of
all his endeavours he had found impossible to conquer; and with
expressing his hope that it would now be rewarded by her acceptance of
his hand. As he said this she could easily see that he had no doubt of a
favourable answer. He _spoke_ of apprehension and anxiety, but his
countenance expressed real security. Such a circumstance could only
exasperate farther; and when he ceased the colour rose into her cheeks
and she said,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “In such cases as this, it is, I believe, the established mode to
express a sense of obligation for the sentiments avowed, however
unequally they may be returned. It is natural that obligation should be
felt, and if I could _feel_ gratitude, I would now thank you. But I
cannot--I have never desired your good opinion, and you have certainly
bestowed it most unwillingly. I am sorry to have occasioned pain to
anyone. It has been most unconsciously done, however, and I hope will be
of short duration. The feelings which you tell me have long prevented
the acknowledgment of your regard can have little difficulty in
overcoming it after this explanation.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Darcy, who was leaning against the mantel-piece with his eyes fixed
on her face, seemed to catch her words with no less resentment than
surprise. His complexion became pale with anger, and the disturbance of
his mind was visible in every feature. He was struggling for the
appearance of composure, and would not open his lips till he believed
himself to have attained it. The pause was to Elizabeth’s feelings
dreadful. At length, in a voice of forced calmness, he said,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And this is all the reply which I am to have the honour of expecting! I
might, perhaps, wish to be informed why, with so little _endeavour_ at
civility, I am thus rejected. But it is of small importance.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I might as well inquire,” replied she, “why, with so evident a design
of offending and insulting me, you chose to tell me that you liked me
against your will, against your reason, and even against your character?
Was not this some excuse for incivility, if I _was_ uncivil? But I have
other provocations. You know I have. Had not my own feelings decided
against you, had they been indifferent, or had they even been
favourable, do you think that any consideration would tempt me to accept
the man who has been the means of ruining, perhaps for ever, the
happiness of a most beloved sister?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As she pronounced these words, Mr. Darcy changed colour; but the emotion
was short, and he listened without attempting to interrupt her while she
continued,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have every reason in the world to think ill of you. No motive can
excuse the unjust and ungenerous part you acted _there_. You dare not,
you cannot deny that you have been the principal, if not the only means
of dividing them from each other, of exposing one to the censure of the
world for caprice and instability, the other to its derision for
disappointed hopes, and involving them both in misery of the acutest
kind.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She paused, and saw with no slight indignation that he was listening
with an air which proved him wholly unmoved by any feeling of remorse.
He even looked at her with a smile of affected incredulity. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> With assumed tranquillity he then replied, “I have no wish of denying
that I did everything in my power to separate my friend from your
sister, or that I rejoice in my success. Towards _him_ I have been
kinder than towards myself.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth disdained the appearance of noticing this civil reflection,
but its meaning did not escape, nor was it likely to conciliate her. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But it is not merely this affair,” she continued, “on which my dislike
is founded. Long before it had taken place, my opinion of you was
decided. Your character was unfolded in the recital which I received
many months ago from Mr. Wickham. On this subject, what can you have to
say? In what imaginary act of friendship can you here defend yourself?
or under what misrepresentation can you here impose upon others?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You take an eager interest in that gentleman’s concerns,” said Darcy,
in a less tranquil tone, and with a heightened colour. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And of your infliction,” cried Elizabeth, with energy; “You have
reduced him to his present state of poverty--comparative poverty. You
have withheld the advantages which you must know to have been designed
for him. You have deprived the best years of his life of that
independence which was no less his due than his desert. You have done
all this! and yet you can treat the mention of his misfortunes with
contempt and ridicule.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And this,” cried Darcy, as he walked with quick steps across the room,
“is your opinion of me! This is the estimation in which you hold me! I
thank you for explaining it so fully. My faults, according to this
calculation, are heavy indeed! But, perhaps,” added he, stopping in his
walk, and turning towards her, “these offences might have been
overlooked, had not your pride been hurt by my honest confession of the
scruples that had long prevented my forming any serious design. These
bitter accusations might have been suppressed, had I, with greater
policy, concealed my struggles, and flattered you into the belief of my
being impelled by unqualified, unalloyed inclination; by reason, by
reflection, by everything. But disguise of every sort is my abhorrence.
Nor am I ashamed of the feelings I related. They were natural and just.
Could you expect me to rejoice in the inferiority of your
connections?--to congratulate myself on the hope of relations whose
condition in life is so decidedly beneath my own?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth felt herself growing more angry every moment; yet she tried to
the utmost to speak with composure when she said,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You are mistaken, Mr. Darcy, if you suppose that the mode of your
declaration affected me in any other way than as it spared me the
concern which I might have felt in refusing you, had you behaved in a
more gentlemanlike manner.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You could not have made me the offer of your hand in any possible way
that would have tempted me to accept it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Again his astonishment was obvious; and he looked at her with an
expression of mingled incredulity and mortification. She went on,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “From the very beginning, from the first moment, I may almost say, of my
acquaintance with you, your manners impressing me with the fullest
belief of your arrogance, your conceit, and your selfish disdain of the
feelings of others, were such as to form that groundwork of
disapprobation, on which succeeding events have built so immovable a
dislike; and I had not known you a month before I felt that you were the
last man in the world whom I could ever be prevailed on to marry.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You have said quite enough, madam. I perfectly comprehend your
feelings, and have now only to be ashamed of what my own have been.
Forgive me for having taken up so much of your time, and accept my best
wishes for your health and happiness.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> And with these words he hastily left the room, and Elizabeth heard him
the next moment open the front door and quit the house. The tumult of
her mind was now painfully great. She knew not how to support herself,
and, from actual weakness, sat down and cried for half an hour. Her
astonishment, as she reflected on what had passed, was increased by
every review of it. That she should receive an offer of marriage from
Mr. Darcy! that he should have been in love with her for so many months!
so much in love as to wish to marry her in spite of all the objections
which had made him prevent his friend’s marrying her sister, and which
must appear at least with equal force in his own case, was almost
incredible! it was gratifying to have inspired unconsciously so strong
an affection. But his pride, his abominable pride, his shameless avowal
of what he had done with respect to Jane, his unpardonable assurance in
acknowledging, though he could not justify it, and the unfeeling manner
which he had mentioned Mr. Wickham, his cruelty towards whom he had not
attempted to deny, soon overcame the pity which the consideration of his
attachment had for a moment excited. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She continued in very agitating reflections till the sound of Lady
Catherine’s carriage made her feel how unequal she was to encounter
Charlotte’s observation, and hurried her away to her room. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth awoke the next morning to the same thoughts and meditations
which had at length closed her eyes. She could not yet recover from the
surprise of what had happened: it was impossible to think of anything
else; and, totally indisposed for employment, she resolved soon after
breakfast to indulge herself in air and exercise. She was proceeding
directly to her favourite walk, when the recollection of Mr. Darcy’s
sometimes coming there stopped her, and instead of entering the park,
she turned up the lane which led her farther from the turnpike road. The
park paling was still the boundary on one side, and she soon passed one
of the gates into the ground. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> After walking two or three times along that part of the lane, she was
tempted, by the pleasantness of the morning, to stop at the gates and
look into the park. The five weeks which she had now passed in Kent had
made a great difference in the country, and every day was adding to the
verdure of the early trees. She was on the point of continuing her
walk, when she caught a glimpse of a gentleman within the sort of grove
which edged the park: he was moving that way; and fearful of its being
Mr. Darcy, she was directly retreating. But the person who advanced was
now near enough to see her, and stepping forward with eagerness,
pronounced her name. She had turned away; but on hearing herself called,
though in a voice which proved it to be Mr. Darcy, she moved again
towards the gate. He had by that time reached it also; and, holding out
a letter, which she instinctively took, said, with a look of haughty
composure, “I have been walking in the grove some time, in the hope of
meeting you. Will you do me the honour of reading that letter?” and
then, with a slight bow, turned again into the plantation, and was soon
out of sight. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> With no expectation of pleasure, but with the strongest curiosity,
Elizabeth opened the letter, and to her still increasing wonder,
perceived an envelope containing two sheets of letter paper, written
quite through, in a very close hand. The envelope itself was likewise
full. Pursuing her way along the lane, she then began it. It was dated
from Rosings, at eight o’clock in the morning, and was as follows:-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Be not alarmed, madam, on receiving this letter, by the apprehension of
its containing any repetition of those sentiments, or renewal of those
offers, which were last night so disgusting to you. I write without any
intention of paining you, or humbling myself, by dwelling on wishes,
which, for the happiness of both, cannot be too soon forgotten; and the
effort which the formation and the perusal of this letter must occasion,
should have been spared, had not my character required it to be written
and read. You must, therefore, pardon the freedom with which I demand
your attention; your feelings, I know, will bestow it unwillingly, but I
demand it of your justice. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Two offences of a very different nature, and by no means of equal
magnitude, you last night laid to my charge. The first mentioned was,
that, regardless of the sentiments of either, I had detached Mr. Bingley
from your sister,--and the other, that I had, in defiance of various
claims, in defiance of honour and humanity, ruined the immediate
prosperity and blasted the prospects of Mr. Wickham. Wilfully and
wantonly to have thrown off the companion of my youth, the acknowledged
favourite of my father, a young man who had scarcely any other
dependence than on our patronage, and who had been brought up to expect
its exertion, would be a depravity, to which the separation of two young
persons whose affection could be the growth of only a few weeks, could
bear no comparison. But from the severity of that blame which was last
night so liberally bestowed, respecting each circumstance, I shall hope
to be in future secured, when the following account of my actions and
their motives has been read. If, in the explanation of them which is due
to myself, I am under the necessity of relating feelings which may be
offensive to yours, I can only say that I am sorry. The necessity must
be obeyed, and further apology would be absurd. I had not been long in
Hertfordshire before I saw, in common with others, that Bingley
preferred your elder sister to any other young woman in the country. But
it was not till the evening of the dance at Netherfield that I had any
apprehension of his feeling a serious attachment. I had often seen him
in love before. At that ball, while I had the honour of dancing with
you, I was first made acquainted, by Sir William Lucas’s accidental
information, that Bingley’s attentions to your sister had given rise to
a general expectation of their marriage. He spoke of it as a certain
event, of which the time alone could be undecided. From that moment I
observed my friend’s behaviour attentively; and I could then perceive
that his partiality for Miss Bennet was beyond what I had ever witnessed
in him. Your sister I also watched. Her look and manners were open,
cheerful, and engaging as ever, but without any symptom of peculiar
regard; and I remained convinced, from the evening’s scrutiny, that
though she received his attentions with pleasure, she did not invite
them by any participation of sentiment. If _you_ have not been mistaken
here, _I_ must have been in an error. Your superior knowledge of your
sister must make the latter probable. If it be so, if I have been misled
by such error to inflict pain on her, your resentment has not been
unreasonable. But I shall not scruple to assert, that the serenity of
your sister’s countenance and air was such as might have given the most
acute observer a conviction that, however amiable her temper, her heart
was not likely to be easily touched. That I was desirous of believing
her indifferent is certain; but I will venture to say that my
investigations and decisions are not usually influenced by my hopes or
fears. I did not believe her to be indifferent because I wished it; I
believed it on impartial conviction, as truly as I wished it in reason.
My objections to the marriage were not merely those which I last night
acknowledged to have required the utmost force of passion to put aside
in my own case; the want of connection could not be so great an evil to
my friend as to me. But there were other causes of repugnance; causes
which, though still existing, and existing to an equal degree in both
instances, I had myself endeavoured to forget, because they were not
immediately before me. These causes must be stated, though briefly. The
situation of your mother’s family, though objectionable, was nothing in
comparison of that total want of propriety so frequently, so almost
uniformly betrayed by herself, by your three younger sisters, and
occasionally even by your father:--pardon me,--it pains me to offend
you. But amidst your concern for the defects of your nearest relations,
and your displeasure at this representation of them, let it give you
consolation to consider that to have conducted yourselves so as to avoid
any share of the like censure is praise no less generally bestowed on
you and your eldest sister than it is honourable to the sense and
disposition of both. I will only say, farther, that from what passed
that evening my opinion of all parties was confirmed, and every
inducement heightened, which could have led me before to preserve my
friend from what I esteemed a most unhappy connection. He left
Netherfield for London on the day following, as you, I am certain,
remember, with the design of soon returning. The part which I acted is
now to be explained. His sisters’ uneasiness had been equally excited
with my own: our coincidence of feeling was soon discovered; and, alike
sensible that no time was to be lost in detaching their brother, we
shortly resolved on joining him directly in London. We accordingly
went--and there I readily engaged in the office of pointing out to my
friend the certain evils of such a choice. I described and enforced them
earnestly. But however this remonstrance might have staggered or delayed
his determination, I do not suppose that it would ultimately have
prevented the marriage, had it not been seconded by the assurance, which
I hesitated not in giving, of your sister’s indifference. He had before
believed her to return his affection with sincere, if not with equal,
regard. But Bingley has great natural modesty, with a stronger
dependence on my judgment than on his own. To convince him, therefore,
that he had deceived himself was no very difficult point. To persuade
him against returning into Hertfordshire, when that conviction had been
given, was scarcely the work of a moment. I cannot blame myself for
having done thus much. There is but one part of my conduct, in the whole
affair, on which I do not reflect with satisfaction; it is that I
condescended to adopt the measures of art so far as to conceal from him
your sister’s being in town. I knew it myself, as it was known to Miss
Bingley; but her brother is even yet ignorant of it. That they might
have met without ill consequence is, perhaps, probable; but his regard
did not appear to me enough extinguished for him to see her without some
danger. Perhaps this concealment, this disguise, was beneath me. It is
done, however, and it was done for the best. On this subject I have
nothing more to say, no other apology to offer. If I have wounded your
sister’s feelings, it was unknowingly done; and though the motives which
governed me may to you very naturally appear insufficient, I have not
yet learnt to condemn them.--With respect to that other, more weighty
accusation, of having injured Mr. Wickham, I can only refute it by
laying before you the whole of his connection with my family. Of what he
has _particularly_ accused me I am ignorant; but of the truth of what I
shall relate I can summon more than one witness of undoubted veracity.
Mr. Wickham is the son of a very respectable man, who had for many years
the management of all the Pemberley estates, and whose good conduct in
the discharge of his trust naturally inclined my father to be of service
to him; and on George Wickham, who was his godson, his kindness was
therefore liberally bestowed. My father supported him at school, and
afterwards at Cambridge; most important assistance, as his own father,
always poor from the extravagance of his wife, would have been unable to
give him a gentleman’s education. My father was not only fond of this
young man’s society, whose manners were always engaging, he had also the
highest opinion of him, and hoping the church would be his profession,
intended to provide for him in it. As for myself, it is many, many years
since I first began to think of him in a very different manner. The
vicious propensities, the want of principle, which he was careful to
guard from the knowledge of his best friend, could not escape the
observation of a young man of nearly the same age with himself, and who
had opportunities of seeing him in unguarded moments, which Mr. Darcy
could not have. Here again I shall give you pain--to what degree you
only can tell. But whatever may be the sentiments which Mr. Wickham has
created, a suspicion of their nature shall not prevent me from unfolding
his real character. It adds even another motive. My excellent father
died about five years ago; and his attachment to Mr. Wickham was to the
last so steady, that in his will he particularly recommended it to me to
promote his advancement in the best manner that his profession might
allow, and if he took orders, desired that a valuable family living
might be his as soon as it became vacant. There was also a legacy of
one thousand pounds. His own father did not long survive mine; and
within half a year from these events Mr. Wickham wrote to inform me
that, having finally resolved against taking orders, he hoped I should
not think it unreasonable for him to expect some more immediate
pecuniary advantage, in lieu of the preferment, by which he could not be
benefited. He had some intention, he added, of studying the law, and I
must be aware that the interest of one thousand pounds would be a very
insufficient support therein. I rather wished than believed him to be
sincere; but, at any rate, was perfectly ready to accede to his
proposal. I knew that Mr. Wickham ought not to be a clergyman. The
business was therefore soon settled. He resigned all claim to assistance
in the church, were it possible that he could ever be in a situation to
receive it, and accepted in return three thousand pounds. All connection
between us seemed now dissolved. I thought too ill of him to invite him
to Pemberley, or admit his society in town. In town, I believe, he
chiefly lived, but his studying the law was a mere pretence; and being
now free from all restraint, his life was a life of idleness and
dissipation. For about three years I heard little of him; but on the
decease of the incumbent of the living which had been designed for him,
he applied to me again by letter for the presentation. His
circumstances, he assured me, and I had no difficulty in believing it,
were exceedingly bad. He had found the law a most unprofitable study,
and was now absolutely resolved on being ordained, if I would present
him to the living in question--of which he trusted there could be little
doubt, as he was well assured that I had no other person to provide for,
and I could not have forgotten my revered father’s intentions. You will
hardly blame me for refusing to comply with this entreaty, or for
resisting every repetition of it. His resentment was in proportion to
the distress of his circumstances--and he was doubtless as violent in
his abuse of me to others as in his reproaches to myself. After this
period, every appearance of acquaintance was dropped. How he lived, I
know not. But last summer he was again most painfully obtruded on my
notice. I must now mention a circumstance which I would wish to forget
myself, and which no obligation less than the present should induce me
to unfold to any human being. Having said thus much, I feel no doubt of
your secrecy. My sister, who is more than ten years my junior, was left
to the guardianship of my mother’s nephew, Colonel Fitzwilliam, and
myself. About a year ago, she was taken from school, and an
establishment formed for her in London; and last summer she went with
the lady who presided over it to Ramsgate; and thither also went Mr.
Wickham, undoubtedly by design; for there proved to have been a prior
acquaintance between him and Mrs. Younge, in whose character we were
most unhappily deceived; and by her connivance and aid he so far
recommended himself to Georgiana, whose affectionate heart retained a
strong impression of his kindness to her as a child, that she was
persuaded to believe herself in love and to consent to an elopement. She
was then but fifteen, which must be her excuse; and after stating her
imprudence, I am happy to add, that I owed the knowledge of it to
herself. I joined them unexpectedly a day or two before the intended
elopement; and then Georgiana, unable to support the idea of grieving
and offending a brother whom she almost looked up to as a father,
acknowledged the whole to me. You may imagine what I felt and how I
acted. Regard for my sister’s credit and feelings prevented any public
exposure; but I wrote to Mr. Wickham, who left the place immediately,
and Mrs. Younge was of course removed from her charge. Mr. Wickham’s
chief object was unquestionably my sister’s fortune, which is thirty
thousand pounds; but I cannot help supposing that the hope of revenging
himself on me was a strong inducement. His revenge would have been
complete indeed. This, madam, is a faithful narrative of every event in
which we have been concerned together; and if you do not absolutely
reject it as false, you will, I hope, acquit me henceforth of cruelty
towards Mr. Wickham. I know not in what manner, under what form of
falsehood, he has imposed on you; but his success is not perhaps to be
wondered at, ignorant as you previously were of everything concerning
either. Detection could not be in your power, and suspicion certainly
not in your inclination. You may possibly wonder why all this was not
told you last night. But I was not then master enough of myself to know
what could or ought to be revealed. For the truth of everything here
related, I can appeal more particularly to the testimony of Colonel
Fitzwilliam, who, from our near relationship and constant intimacy, and
still more as one of the executors of my father’s will, has been
unavoidably acquainted with every particular of these transactions. If
your abhorrence of _me_ should make _my_ assertions valueless, you
cannot be prevented by the same cause from confiding in my cousin; and
that there may be the possibility of consulting him, I shall endeavour
to find some opportunity of putting this letter in your hands in the
course of the morning. I will only add, God bless you. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth, when Mr. Darcy gave her the letter, did not expect it to
contain a renewal of his offers, she had formed no expectation at all of
its contents. But such as they were, it may be well supposed how eagerly
she went through them, and what a contrariety of emotion they excited.
Her feelings as she read were scarcely to be defined. With amazement did
she first understand that he believed any apology to be in his power;
and steadfastly was she persuaded, that he could have no explanation to
give, which a just sense of shame would not conceal. With a strong
prejudice against everything he might say, she began his account of
what had happened at Netherfield. She read with an eagerness which
hardly left her power of comprehension; and from impatience of knowing
what the next sentence might bring, was incapable of attending to the
sense of the one before her eyes. His belief of her sister’s
insensibility she instantly resolved to be false; and his account of the
real, the worst objections to the match, made her too angry to have any
wish of doing him justice. He expressed no regret for what he had done
which satisfied her; his style was not penitent, but haughty. It was all
pride and insolence. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But when this subject was succeeded by his account of Mr. Wickham--when
she read, with somewhat clearer attention, a relation of events which,
if true, must overthrow every cherished opinion of his worth, and which
bore so alarming an affinity to his own history of himself--her feelings
were yet more acutely painful and more difficult of definition.
Astonishment, apprehension, and even horror, oppressed her. She wished
to discredit it entirely, repeatedly exclaiming, “This must be false!
This cannot be! This must be the grossest falsehood!”--and when she had
gone through the whole letter, though scarcely knowing anything of the
last page or two, put it hastily away, protesting that she would not
regard it, that she would never look in it again. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In this perturbed state of mind, with thoughts that could rest on
nothing, she walked on; but it would not do: in half a minute the letter
was unfolded again; and collecting herself as well as she could, she
again began the mortifying perusal of all that related to Wickham, and
commanded herself so far as to examine the meaning of every sentence.
The account of his connection with the Pemberley family was exactly
what he had related himself; and the kindness of the late Mr. Darcy,
though she had not before known its extent, agreed equally well with his
own words. So far each recital confirmed the other; but when she came to
the will, the difference was great. What Wickham had said of the living
was fresh in her memory; and as she recalled his very words, it was
impossible not to feel that there was gross duplicity on one side or the
other, and, for a few moments, she flattered herself that her wishes did
not err. But when she read and re-read, with the closest attention, the
particulars immediately following of Wickham’s resigning all pretensions
to the living, of his receiving in lieu so considerable a sum as three
thousand pounds, again was she forced to hesitate. She put down the
letter, weighed every circumstance with what she meant to be
impartiality--deliberated on the probability of each statement--but with
little success. On both sides it was only assertion. Again she read on.
But every line proved more clearly that the affair, which she had
believed it impossible that any contrivance could so represent as to
render Mr. Darcy’s conduct in it less than infamous, was capable of a
turn which must make him entirely blameless throughout the whole. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The extravagance and general profligacy which he scrupled not to lay to
Mr. Wickham’s charge exceedingly shocked her; the more so, as she could
bring no proof of its injustice. She had never heard of him before his
entrance into the ----shire militia, in which he had engaged at the
persuasion of the young man, who, on meeting him accidentally in town,
had there renewed a slight acquaintance. Of his former way of life,
nothing had been known in Hertfordshire but what he told </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> himself. As to his real character, had information been in her power,
she had never felt a wish of inquiring. His countenance, voice, and
manner, had established him at once in the possession of every virtue.
She tried to recollect some instance of goodness, some distinguished
trait of integrity or benevolence, that might rescue him from the
attacks of Mr. Darcy; or at least, by the predominance of virtue, atone
for those casual errors, under which she would endeavour to class what
Mr. Darcy had described as the idleness and vice of many years’
continuance. But no such recollection befriended her. She could see him
instantly before her, in every charm of air and address, but she could
remember no more substantial good than the general approbation of the
neighbourhood, and the regard which his social powers had gained him in
the mess. After pausing on this point a considerable while, she once
more continued to read. But, alas! the story which followed, of his
designs on Miss Darcy, received some confirmation from what had passed
between Colonel Fitzwilliam and herself only the morning before; and at
last she was referred for the truth of every particular to Colonel
Fitzwilliam himself--from whom she had previously received the
information of his near concern in all his cousin’s affairs and whose
character she had no reason to question. At one time she had almost
resolved on applying to him, but the idea was checked by the awkwardness
of the application, and at length wholly banished by the conviction that
Mr. Darcy would never have hazarded such a proposal, if he had not been
well assured of his cousin’s corroboration. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She perfectly remembered everything that had passed in conversation
between Wickham and herself in their first evening at Mr. Philips’s.
Many of his expressions were still fresh in her memory. She was _now_
struck with the impropriety of such communications to a stranger, and
wondered it had escaped her before. She saw the indelicacy of putting
himself forward as he had done, and the inconsistency of his professions
with his conduct. She remembered that he had boasted of having no fear
of seeing Mr. Darcy--that Mr. Darcy might leave the country, but that
_he_ should stand his ground; yet he had avoided the Netherfield ball
the very next week. She remembered, also, that till the Netherfield
family had quitted the country, he had told his story to no one but
herself; but that after their removal, it had been everywhere discussed;
that he had then no reserves, no scruples in sinking Mr. Darcy’s
character, though he had assured her that respect for the father would
always prevent his exposing the son. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> How differently did everything now appear in which he was concerned! His
attentions to Miss King were now the consequence of views solely and
hatefully mercenary; and the mediocrity of her fortune proved no longer
the moderation of his wishes, but his eagerness to grasp at anything.
His behaviour to herself could now have had no tolerable motive: he had
either been deceived with regard to her fortune, or had been gratifying
his vanity by encouraging the preference which she believed she had most
incautiously shown. Every lingering struggle in his favour grew fainter
and fainter; and in further justification of Mr. Darcy, she could not
but allow that Mr. Bingley, when questioned by Jane, had long ago
asserted his blamelessness in the affair;--that, proud and repulsive as
were his manners, she had never, in the whole course of their
acquaintance--an acquaintance which had latterly brought them much
together, and given her a sort of intimacy with his ways--seen anything
that betrayed him to be unprincipled or unjust--anything that spoke him
of irreligious or immoral habits;--that among his own connections he was
esteemed and valued;--that even Wickham had allowed him merit as a
brother, and that she had often heard him speak so affectionately of his
sister as to prove him capable of some amiable feeling;--that had his
actions been what Wickham represented them, so gross a violation of
everything right could hardly have been concealed from the world; and
that friendship between a person capable of it and such an amiable man
as Mr. Bingley was incomprehensible. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She grew absolutely ashamed of herself. Of neither Darcy nor Wickham
could she think, without feeling that she had been blind, partial,
prejudiced, absurd. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “How despicably have I acted!” she cried. “I, who have prided myself on
my discernment! I, who have valued myself on my abilities! who have
often disdained the generous candour of my sister, and gratified my
vanity in useless or blameless distrust. How humiliating is this
discovery! Yet, how just a humiliation! Had I been in love, I could not
have been more wretchedly blind. But vanity, not love, has been my
folly. Pleased with the preference of one, and offended by the neglect
of the other, on the very beginning of our acquaintance, I have courted
prepossession and ignorance, and driven reason away where either were
concerned. Till this moment, I never knew myself.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> From herself to Jane, from Jane to Bingley, her thoughts were in a line
which soon brought to her recollection that Mr. Darcy’s explanation
_there_ had appeared very insufficient; and she read it again. Widely
different was the effect of a second perusal. How could she deny that
credit to his assertions, in one instance, which she had been obliged to
give in the other? He declared himself to have been totally unsuspicious
of her sister’s attachment; and she could not help remembering what
Charlotte’s opinion had always been. Neither could she deny the justice
of his description of Jane. She felt that Jane’s feelings, though
fervent, were little displayed, and that there was a constant
complacency in her air and manner, not often united with great
sensibility. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When she came to that part of the letter in which her family were
mentioned, in tones of such mortifying, yet merited, reproach, her sense
of shame was severe. The justice of the charge struck her too forcibly
for denial; and the circumstances to which he particularly alluded, as
having passed at the Netherfield ball, and as confirming all his first
disapprobation, could not have made a stronger impression on his mind
than on hers. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The compliment to herself and her sister was not unfelt. It soothed, but
it could not console her for the contempt which had been thus
self-attracted by the rest of her family; and as she considered that
Jane’s disappointment had, in fact, been the work of her nearest
relations, and reflected how materially the credit of both must be hurt
by such impropriety of conduct, she felt depressed beyond anything she
had ever known before. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> After wandering along the lane for two hours, giving way to every
variety of thought, reconsidering events, determining probabilities, and
reconciling herself, as well as she could, to a change so sudden and so
important, fatigue, and a recollection of her long absence, made her at
length return home; and she entered the house with the wish of appearing
cheerful as usual, and the resolution of repressing such reflections as
must make her unfit for conversation. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She was immediately told, that the two gentlemen from Rosings had each
called during her absence; Mr. Darcy, only for a few minutes, to take
leave, but that Colonel Fitzwilliam had been sitting with them at least
an hour, hoping for her return, and almost resolving to walk after her
till she could be found. Elizabeth could but just _affect_ concern in
missing him; she really rejoiced at it. Colonel Fitzwilliam was no
longer an object. She could think only of her letter. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The two gentlemen left Rosings the next morning; and Mr. Collins having
been in waiting near the lodges, to make them his parting obeisance, was
able to bring home the pleasing intelligence of their appearing in very
good health, and in as tolerable spirits as could be expected, after the
melancholy scene so lately gone through at Rosings. To Rosings he then
hastened to console Lady Catherine and her daughter; and on his return
brought back, with great satisfaction, a message from her Ladyship,
importing that she felt herself so dull as to make her very desirous of
having them all to dine with her. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth could not see Lady Catherine without recollecting that, had
she chosen it, she might by this time have been presented to her as her
future niece; nor could she think, without a smile, of what her
Ladyship’s indignation would have been. “What would she have said? how
would she have behaved?” were the questions with which she amused
herself. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Their first subject was the diminution of the Rosings’ party. “I assure
you, I feel it exceedingly,” said Lady Catherine; “I believe nobody
feels the loss of friends so much as I do. But I am particularly
attached to these young men; and know them to be so much attached to me!
They were excessively sorry to go! But so they always are. The dear
Colonel rallied his spirits tolerably till just at last; but Darcy
seemed to feel it most acutely--more, I think, than last year. His
attachment to Rosings certainly increases.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Collins had a compliment and an allusion to throw in here, which
were kindly smiled on by the mother and daughter. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Lady Catherine observed, after dinner, that Miss Bennet seemed out of
spirits; and immediately accounting for it herself, by supposing that
she did not like to go home again so soon, she added,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But if that is the case, you must write to your mother to beg that you
may stay a little longer. Mrs. Collins will be very glad of your
company, I am sure.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am much obliged to your Ladyship for your kind invitation,” replied
Elizabeth; “but it is not in my power to accept it. I must be in town
next Saturday.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Why, at that rate, you will have been here only six weeks. I expected
you to stay two months. I told Mrs. Collins so before you came. There
can be no occasion for your going so soon. Mrs. Bennet could certainly
spare you for another fortnight.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, your father, of course, may spare you, if your mother can.
Daughters are never of so much consequence to a father. And if you will
stay another _month_ complete, it will be in my power to take one of you
as far as London, for I am going there early in June, for a week; and
as Dawson does not object to the barouche-box, there will be very good
room for one of you--and, indeed, if the weather should happen to be
cool, I should not object to taking you both, as you are neither of you
large.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Lady Catherine seemed resigned. “Mrs. Collins, you must send a servant
with them. You know I always speak my mind, and I cannot bear the idea
of two young women travelling post by themselves. It is highly improper.
You must contrive to send somebody. I have the greatest dislike in the
world to that sort of thing. Young women should always be properly
guarded and attended, according to their situation in life. When my
niece Georgiana went to Ramsgate last summer, I made a point of her
having two men-servants go with her. Miss Darcy, the daughter of Mr.
Darcy of Pemberley, and Lady Anne, could not have appeared with
propriety in a different manner. I am excessively attentive to all those
things. You must send John with the young ladies, Mrs. Collins. I am
glad it occurred to me to mention it; for it would really be
discreditable to _you_ to let them go alone.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh! Your uncle! He keeps a man-servant, does he? I am very glad you
have somebody who thinks of those things. Where shall you change horses?
Oh, Bromley, of course. If you mention my name at the Bell, you will be
attended to.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Lady Catherine had many other questions to ask respecting their journey;
and as she did not answer them all herself attention was
necessary--which Elizabeth believed to be lucky for her; or, with a
mind so occupied, she might have forgotten where she was. Reflection
must be reserved for solitary hours: whenever she was alone, she gave
way to it as the greatest relief; and not a day went by without a
solitary walk, in which she might indulge in all the delight of
unpleasant recollections. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Darcy’s letter she was in a fair way of soon knowing by heart. She
studied every sentence; and her feelings towards its writer were at
times widely different. When she remembered the style of his address,
she was still full of indignation: but when she considered how unjustly
she had condemned and upbraided him, her anger was turned against
herself; and his disappointed feelings became the object of compassion.
His attachment excited gratitude, his general character respect: but she
could not approve him; nor could she for a moment repent her refusal, or
feel the slightest inclination ever to see him again. In her own past
behaviour, there was a constant source of vexation and regret: and in
the unhappy defects of her family, a subject of yet heavier chagrin.
They were hopeless of remedy. Her father, contented with laughing at
them, would never exert himself to restrain the wild giddiness of his
youngest daughters; and her mother, with manners so far from right
herself, was entirely insensible of the evil. Elizabeth had frequently
united with Jane in an endeavour to check the imprudence of Catherine
and Lydia; but while they were supported by their mother’s indulgence,
what chance could there be of improvement? Catherine, weak-spirited,
irritable, and completely under Lydia’s guidance, had been always
affronted by their advice; and Lydia, self-willed and careless, would
scarcely give them a hearing. They were ignorant, idle, and vain. While
there was an officer in Meryton, they would flirt with him; and while
Meryton was within a walk of Longbourn, they would be going there for
ever. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Anxiety on Jane’s behalf was another prevailing concern; and Mr. Darcy’s
explanation, by restoring Bingley to all her former good opinion,
heightened the sense of what Jane had lost. His affection was proved to
have been sincere, and his conduct cleared of all blame, unless any
could attach to the implicitness of his confidence in his friend. How
grievous then was the thought that, of a situation so desirable in every
respect, so replete with advantage, so promising for happiness, Jane had
been deprived, by the folly and indecorum of her own family! </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When to these recollections was added the development of Wickham’s
character, it may be easily believed that the happy spirits which had
seldom been depressed before were now so much affected as to make it
almost impossible for her to appear tolerably cheerful. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Their engagements at Rosings were as frequent during the last week of
her stay as they had been at first. The very last evening was spent
there; and her Ladyship again inquired minutely into the particulars of
their journey, gave them directions as to the best method of packing,
and was so urgent on the necessity of placing gowns in the only right
way, that Maria thought herself obliged, on her return, to undo all the
work of the morning, and pack her trunk afresh. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When they parted, Lady Catherine, with great condescension, wished them
a good journey, and invited them to come to Hunsford again next year;
and Miss de Bourgh exerted herself so far as to courtesy and hold out
her hand to both. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> On Saturday morning Elizabeth and Mr. Collins met for breakfast a few
minutes before the others appeared; and he took the opportunity of
paying the parting civilities which he deemed indispensably necessary. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I know not, Miss Elizabeth,” said he, “whether Mrs. Collins has yet
expressed her sense of your kindness in coming to us; but I am very
certain you will not leave the house without receiving her thanks for
it. The favour of your company has been much felt, I assure you. We know
how little there is to tempt anyone to our humble abode. Our plain
manner of living, our small rooms, and few domestics, and the little we
see of the world, must make Hunsford extremely dull to a young lady like
yourself; but I hope you will believe us grateful for the condescension,
and that we have done everything in our power to prevent you spending
your time unpleasantly.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth was eager with her thanks and assurances of happiness. She had
spent six weeks with great enjoyment; and the pleasure of being with
Charlotte, and the kind attention she had received, must make _her_ feel
the obliged. Mr. Collins was gratified; and with a more smiling
solemnity replied,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It gives me the greatest pleasure to hear that you have passed your
time not disagreeably. We have certainly done our best; and most
fortunately having it in our power to introduce you to very superior
society, and from our connection with Rosings, the frequent means of
varying the humble home scene, I think we may flatter ourselves that
your Hunsford visit cannot have been entirely irksome. Our situation
with regard to Lady Catherine’s family is, indeed, the sort of
extraordinary advantage and blessing which few can boast. You see on
what a footing we are. You see how continually we are engaged there. In
truth, I must acknowledge, that, with all the disadvantages of this
humble parsonage, I should not think anyone abiding in it an object of
compassion, while they are sharers of our intimacy at Rosings.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Words were insufficient for the elevation of his feelings; and he was
obliged to walk about the room, while Elizabeth tried to unite civility
and truth in a few short sentences. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You may, in fact, carry a very favourable report of us into
Hertfordshire, my dear cousin. I flatter myself, at least, that you will
be able to do so. Lady Catherine’s great attentions to Mrs. Collins you
have been a daily witness of; and altogether I trust it does not appear
that your friend has drawn an unfortunate--but on this point it will be
as well to be silent. Only let me assure you, my dear Miss Elizabeth,
that I can from my heart most cordially wish you equal felicity in
marriage. My dear Charlotte and I have but one mind and one way of
thinking. There is in everything a most remarkable resemblance of
character and ideas between us. We seem to have been designed for each
other.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth could safely say that it was a great happiness where that was
the case, and with equal sincerity could add, that she firmly believed
and rejoiced in his domestic comforts. She was not sorry, however, to
have the recital of them interrupted by the entrance of the lady from
whom they sprang. Poor Charlotte! it was melancholy to leave her to such
society! But she had chosen it with her eyes open; and though evidently
regretting that her visitors were to go, she did not seem to ask for
compassion. Her home and her housekeeping, her parish and her poultry,
and all their dependent concerns, had not yet lost their charms. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> At length the chaise arrived, the trunks were fastened on, the parcels
placed within, and it was pronounced to be ready. After an affectionate
parting between the friends, Elizabeth was attended to the carriage by
Mr. Collins; and as they walked down the garden, he was commissioning
her with his best respects to all her family, not forgetting his thanks
for the kindness he had received at Longbourn in the winter, and his
compliments to Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner, though unknown. He then handed
her in, Maria followed, and the door was on the point of being closed,
when he suddenly reminded them, with some consternation, that they had
hitherto forgotten to leave any message for the ladies of Rosings. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But,” he added, “you will of course wish to have your humble respects
delivered to them, with your grateful thanks for their kindness to you
while you have been here.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Good gracious!” cried Maria, after a few minutes’ silence, “it seems
but a day or two since we first came! and yet how many things have
happened!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Their journey was performed without much conversation, or any alarm; and
within four hours of their leaving Hunsford they reached Mr. Gardiner’s
house, where they were to remain a few days. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Jane looked well, and Elizabeth had little opportunity of studying her
spirits, amidst the various engagements which the kindness of her aunt
had reserved for them. But Jane was to go home with her, and at
Longbourn there would be leisure enough for observation. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was not without an effort, meanwhile, that she could wait even for
Longbourn, before she told her sister of Mr. Darcy’s proposals. To know
that she had the power of revealing what would so exceedingly astonish
Jane, and must, at the same time, so highly gratify whatever of her own
vanity she had not yet been able to reason away, was such a temptation
to openness as nothing could have conquered, but the state of indecision
in which she remained as to the extent of what she should communicate,
and her fear, if she once entered on the subject, of being hurried into
repeating something of Bingley, which might only grieve her sister
further. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was the second week in May, in which the three young ladies set out
together from Gracechurch Street for the town of ----, in Hertfordshire;
and, as they drew near the appointed inn where Mr. Bennet’s carriage was
to meet them, they quickly perceived, in token of the coachman’s
punctuality, both Kitty and Lydia looking out of a dining-room upstairs.
These two girls had been above an hour in the place, happily employed
in visiting an opposite milliner, watching the sentinel on guard, and
dressing a salad and cucumber. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> After welcoming their sisters, they triumphantly displayed a table set
out with such cold meat as an inn larder usually affords, exclaiming,
“Is not this nice? is not this an agreeable surprise?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And we mean to treat you all,” added Lydia; “but you must lend us the
money, for we have just spent ours at the shop out there.” Then showing
her purchases,--“Look here, I have bought this bonnet. I do not think it
is very pretty; but I thought I might as well buy it as not. I shall
pull it to pieces as soon as I get home, and see if I can make it up any
better.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> And when her sisters abused it as ugly, she added, with perfect
unconcern, “Oh, but there were two or three much uglier in the shop; and
when I have bought some prettier-coloured satin to trim it with fresh, I
think it will be very tolerable. Besides, it will not much signify what
one wears this summer, after the ----shire have left Meryton, and they
are going in a fortnight.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “They are going to be encamped near Brighton; and I do so want papa to
take us all there for the summer! It would be such a delicious scheme,
and I dare say would hardly cost anything at all. Mamma would like to
go, too, of all things! Only think what a miserable summer else we shall
have!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes,” thought Elizabeth; “_that_ would be a delightful scheme, indeed,
and completely do for us at once. Good Heaven! Brighton and a whole
campful of soldiers, to us, who have been overset already by one poor
regiment of militia, and the monthly balls of Meryton!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Now I have got some news for you,” said Lydia, as they sat down to
table. “What do you think? It is excellent news, capital news, and about
a certain person that we all like.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Jane and Elizabeth looked at each other, and the waiter was told that he
need not stay. Lydia laughed, and said,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Ay, that is just like your formality and discretion. You thought the
waiter must not hear, as if he cared! I dare say he often hears worse
things said than I am going to say. But he is an ugly fellow! I am glad
he is gone. I never saw such a long chin in my life. Well, but now for
my news: it is about dear Wickham; too good for the waiter, is not it?
There is no danger of Wickham’s marrying Mary King--there’s for you! She
is gone down to her uncle at Liverpool; gone to stay. Wickham is safe.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am sure there is not on _his_. I will answer for it, he never cared
three straws about her. Who _could_ about such a nasty little freckled
thing?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth was shocked to think that, however incapable of such
coarseness of _expression_ herself, the coarseness of the _sentiment_
was little other than her own breast had formerly harboured and fancied
liberal! </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As soon as all had ate, and the elder ones paid, the carriage was
ordered; and, after some contrivance, the whole party, with all their
boxes, workbags, and parcels, and the unwelcome addition of Kitty’s and
Lydia’s purchases, were seated in it. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “How nicely we are crammed in!” cried Lydia. “I am glad I brought my
bonnet, if it is only for the fun of having another band-box! Well, now
let us be quite comfortable and snug, and talk and laugh all the way
home. And in the first place, let us hear what has happened to you all
since you went away. Have you seen any pleasant men? Have you had any
flirting? I was in great hopes that one of you would have got a husband
before you came back. Jane will be quite an old maid soon, I declare.
She is almost three-and-twenty! Lord! how ashamed I should be of not
being married before three-and-twenty! My aunt Philips wants you so to
get husbands you can’t think. She says Lizzy had better have taken Mr.
Collins; but _I_ do not think there would have been any fun in it. Lord!
how I should like to be married before any of you! and then I would
_chaperon_ you about to all the balls. Dear me! we had such a good piece
of fun the other day at Colonel Forster’s! Kitty and me were to spend
the day there, and Mrs. Forster promised to have a little dance in the
evening; (by-the-bye, Mrs. Forster and me are _such_ friends!) and so
she asked the two Harringtons to come: but Harriet was ill, and so Pen
was forced to come by herself; and then, what do you think we did? We
dressed up Chamberlayne in woman’s clothes, on purpose to pass for a
lady,--only think what fun! Not a soul knew of it, but Colonel and Mrs.
Forster, and Kitty and me, except my aunt, for we were forced to borrow
one of her gowns; and you cannot imagine how well he looked! When Denny,
and Wickham, and Pratt, and two or three more of the men came in, they
did not know him in the least. Lord! how I laughed! and so did Mrs.
Forster. I thought I should have died. And _that_ made the men suspect
something, and then they soon found out what was the matter.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> With such kind of histories of their parties and good jokes did Lydia,
assisted by Kitty’s hints and additions, endeavour to amuse her
companions all the way to Longbourn. Elizabeth listened as little as she
could, but there was no escaping the frequent mention of Wickham’s name. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Their reception at home was most kind. Mrs. Bennet rejoiced to see Jane
in undiminished beauty; and more than once during dinner did Mr. Bennet
say voluntarily to Elizabeth,---- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Their party in the dining-room was large, for almost all the Lucases
came to meet Maria and hear the news; and various were the subjects
which occupied them: Lady Lucas was inquiring of Maria, across the
table, after the welfare and poultry of her eldest daughter; Mrs. Bennet
was doubly engaged, on one hand collecting an account of the present
fashions from Jane, who sat some way below her, and on the other,
retailing them all to the younger Miss Lucases; and Lydia, in a voice
rather louder than any other person’s, was enumerating the various
pleasures of the morning to anybody who would hear her. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, Mary,” said she, “I wish you had gone with us, for we had such fun!
as we went along Kitty and me drew up all the blinds, and pretended
there was nobody in the coach; and I should have gone so all the way, if
Kitty had not been sick; and when we got to the George, I do think we
behaved very handsomely, for we treated the other three with the nicest
cold luncheon in the world, and if you would have gone, we would have
treated you too. And then when we came away it was such fun! I thought
we never should have got into the coach. I was ready to die of laughter.
And then we were so merry all the way home! we talked and laughed so
loud, that anybody might have heard us ten miles off!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> To this, Mary very gravely replied, “Far be it from me, my dear sister,
to depreciate such pleasures. They would doubtless be congenial with the
generality of female minds. But I confess they would have no charms for
_me_. I should infinitely prefer a book.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But of this answer Lydia heard not a word. She seldom listened to
anybody for more than half a minute, and never attended to Mary at all. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In the afternoon Lydia was urgent with the rest of the girls to walk to
Meryton, and see how everybody went on; but Elizabeth steadily opposed
the scheme. It should not be said, that the Miss Bennets could not be at
home half a day before they were in pursuit of the officers. There was
another reason, too, for her opposition. She dreaded seeing Wickham
again, and was resolved to avoid it as long as possible. The comfort to
_her_, of the regiment’s approaching removal, was indeed beyond
expression. In a fortnight they were to go, and once gone, she hoped
there could be nothing more to plague her on his account. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She had not been many hours at home, before she found that the Brighton
scheme, of which Lydia had given them a hint at the inn, was under
frequent discussion between her parents. Elizabeth saw directly that her
father had not the smallest intention of yielding; but his answers were
at the same time so vague and equivocal, that her mother, though often
disheartened, had never yet despaired of succeeding at last. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth’s impatience to acquaint Jane with what had happened could no
longer be overcome; and at length resolving to suppress every particular
in which her sister was concerned, and preparing her to be surprised,
she related to her the next morning the chief of the scene between Mr.
Darcy and herself. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Miss Bennet’s astonishment was soon lessened by the strong sisterly
partiality which made any admiration of Elizabeth appear perfectly
natural; and all surprise was shortly lost in other feelings. She was
sorry that Mr. Darcy should have delivered his sentiments in a manner so
little suited to recommend them; but still more was she grieved for the
unhappiness which her sister’s refusal must have given him. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “His being so sure of succeeding was wrong,” said she, “and certainly
ought not to have appeared; but consider how much it must increase his
disappointment.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Indeed,” replied Elizabeth, “I am heartily sorry for him; but he has
other feelings which will probably soon drive away his regard for me.
You do not blame me, however, for refusing him?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She then spoke of the letter, repeating the whole of its contents as far
as they concerned George Wickham. What a stroke was this for poor Jane,
who would willingly have gone through the world without believing that
so much wickedness existed in the whole race of mankind as was here
collected in one individual! Nor was Darcy’s vindication, though
grateful to her feelings, capable of consoling her for such discovery.
Most earnestly did she labour to prove the probability of error, and
seek to clear one, without involving the other. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This will not do,” said Elizabeth; “you never will be able to make both
of them good for anything. Take your choice, but you must be satisfied
with only one. There is but such a quantity of merit between them; just
enough to make one good sort of man; and of late it has been shifting
about pretty much. For my part, I am inclined to believe it all Mr.
Darcy’s, but you shall do as you choose.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I do not know when I have been more shocked,” said she. “Wickham so
very bad! It is almost past belief. And poor Mr. Darcy! dear Lizzy,
only consider what he must have suffered. Such a disappointment! and
with the knowledge of your ill opinion too! and having to relate such a
thing of his sister! It is really too distressing, I am sure you must
feel it so.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh no, my regret and compassion are all done away by seeing you so full
of both. I know you will do him such ample justice, that I am growing
every moment more unconcerned and indifferent. Your profusion makes me
saving; and if you lament over him much longer, my heart will be as
light as a feather.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “There certainly was some great mismanagement in the education of those
two young men. One has got all the goodness, and the other all the
appearance of it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And yet I meant to be uncommonly clever in taking so decided a dislike
to him, without any reason. It is such a spur to one’s genius, such an
opening for wit, to have a dislike of that kind. One may be continually
abusive without saying anything just; but one cannot be always laughing
at a man without now and then stumbling on something witty.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Indeed, I could not. I was uncomfortable enough, I was very
uncomfortable--I may say unhappy. And with no one to speak to of what I
felt, no Jane to comfort me, and say that I had not been so very weak,
and vain, and nonsensical, as I knew I had! Oh, how I wanted you!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “How unfortunate that you should have used such very strong expressions
in speaking of Wickham to Mr. Darcy, for now they _do_ appear wholly
undeserved.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Certainly. But the misfortune of speaking with bitterness is a most
natural consequence of the prejudices I had been encouraging. There is
one point on which I want your advice. I want to be told whether I
ought, or ought not, to make our acquaintance in general understand
Wickham’s character.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Miss Bennet paused a little, and then replied, “Surely there can be no
occasion for exposing him so dreadfully. What is your own opinion?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That it ought not to be attempted. Mr. Darcy has not authorized me to
make his communication public. On the contrary, every particular
relative to his sister was meant to be kept as much as possible to
myself; and if I endeavour to undeceive people as to the rest of his
conduct, who will believe me? The general prejudice against Mr. Darcy is
so violent, that it would be the death of half the good people in
Meryton, to attempt to place him in an amiable light. I am not equal to
it. Wickham will soon be gone; and, therefore, it will not signify to
anybody here what he really is. Some time hence it will be all found
out, and then we may laugh at their stupidity in not knowing it before.
At present I will say nothing about it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You are quite right. To have his errors made public might ruin him for
ever. He is now, perhaps, sorry for what he has done, and anxious to
re-establish a character. We must not make him desperate.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The tumult of Elizabeth’s mind was allayed by this conversation. She
had got rid of two of the secrets which had weighed on her for a
fortnight, and was certain of a willing listener in Jane, whenever she
might wish to talk again of either. But there was still something
lurking behind, of which prudence forbade the disclosure. She dared not
relate the other half of Mr. Darcy’s letter, nor explain to her sister
how sincerely she had been valued by his friend. Here was knowledge in
which no one could partake; and she was sensible that nothing less than
a perfect understanding between the parties could justify her in
throwing off this last encumbrance of mystery. “And then,” said she, “if
that very improbable event should ever take place, I shall merely be
able to tell what Bingley may tell in a much more agreeable manner
himself. The liberty of communication cannot be mine till it has lost
all its value!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She was now, on being settled at home, at leisure to observe the real
state of her sister’s spirits. Jane was not happy. She still cherished a
very tender affection for Bingley. Having never even fancied herself in
love before, her regard had all the warmth of first attachment, and from
her age and disposition, greater steadiness than first attachments often
boast; and so fervently did she value his remembrance, and prefer him to
every other man, that all her good sense, and all her attention to the
feelings of her friends, were requisite to check the indulgence of those
regrets which must have been injurious to her own health and their
tranquillity. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, Lizzy,” said Mrs. Bennet, one day, “what is your opinion _now_ of
this sad business of Jane’s? For my part, I am determined never to speak
of it again to anybody. I told my sister Philips so the other day. But I
cannot find out that Jane saw anything of him in London. Well, he is a
very undeserving young man--and I do not suppose there is the least
chance in the world of her ever getting him now. There is no talk of his
coming to Netherfield again in the summer; and I have inquired of
everybody, too, who is likely to know.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, well! it is just as he chooses. Nobody wants him to come; though I
shall always say that he used my daughter extremely ill; and, if I was
her, I would not have put up with it. Well, my comfort is, I am sure
Jane will die of a broken heart, and then he will be sorry for what he
has done.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, Lizzy,” continued her mother, soon afterwards, “and so the
Collinses live very comfortable, do they? Well, well, I only hope it
will last. And what sort of table do they keep? Charlotte is an
excellent manager, I dare say. If she is half as sharp as her mother,
she is saving enough. There is nothing extravagant in _their_
housekeeping, I dare say.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “A great deal of good management, depend upon it. Yes, yes. _They_ will
take care not to outrun their income. _They_ will never be distressed
for money. Well, much good may it do them! And so, I suppose, they often
talk of having Longbourn when your father is dead. They look upon it
quite as their own, I dare say, whenever that happens.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No; it would have been strange if they had. But I make no doubt they
often talk of it between themselves. Well, if they can be easy with an
estate that is not lawfully their own, so much the better. _I_ should be
ashamed of having one that was only entailed on me.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The first week of their return was soon gone. The second began. It was
the last of the regiment’s stay in Meryton, and all the young ladies in
the neighbourhood were drooping apace. The dejection was almost
universal. The elder Miss Bennets alone were still able to eat, drink,
and sleep, and pursue the usual course of their employments. Very
frequently were they reproached for this insensibility by Kitty and
Lydia, whose own misery was extreme, and who could not comprehend such
hard-heartedness in any of the family. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Good Heaven! What is to become of us? What are we to do?” would they
often exclaim in the bitterness of woe. “How can you be smiling so,
Lizzy?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Their affectionate mother shared all their grief; she remembered what
she had herself endured on a similar occasion five-and-twenty years ago. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am sure,” said she, “I cried for two days together when Colonel
Miller’s regiment went away. I thought I should have broke my heart.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Such were the kind of lamentations resounding perpetually through
Longbourn House. Elizabeth tried to be diverted by them; but all sense
of pleasure was lost in shame. She felt anew the justice of Mr. Darcy’s
objections; and never had she before been so much disposed to pardon his
interference in the views of his friend. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But the gloom of Lydia’s prospect was shortly cleared away; for she
received an invitation from Mrs. Forster, the wife of the colonel of the
regiment, to accompany her to Brighton. This invaluable friend was a
very young woman, and very lately married. A resemblance in good-humour
and good spirits had recommended her and Lydia to each other, and out of
their _three_ months’ acquaintance they had been intimate _two_. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The rapture of Lydia on this occasion, her adoration of Mrs. Forster,
the delight of Mrs. Bennet, and the mortification of Kitty, are scarcely
to be described. Wholly inattentive to her sister’s feelings, Lydia flew
about the house in restless ecstasy, calling for everyone’s
congratulations, and laughing and talking with more violence than ever;
whilst the luckless Kitty continued in the parlour repining at her fate
in terms as unreasonable as her accent was peevish. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I cannot see why Mrs. Forster should not ask _me_ as well as Lydia,”
said she, “though I am _not_ her particular friend. I have just as much
right to be asked as she has, and more too, for I am two years older.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In vain did Elizabeth attempt to make her reasonable, and Jane to make
her resigned. As for Elizabeth herself, this invitation was so far from
exciting in her the same feelings as in her mother and Lydia, that she
considered it as the death-warrant of all possibility of common sense
for the latter; and detestable as such a step must make her, were it
known, she could not help secretly advising her father not to let her
go. She represented to him all the improprieties of Lydia’s general
behaviour, the little advantage she could derive from the friendship of
such a woman as Mrs. Forster, and the probability of her being yet more
imprudent with such a companion at Brighton, where the temptations must
be greater than at home. He heard her attentively, and then said,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Lydia will never be easy till she has exposed herself in some public
place or other, and we can never expect her to do it with so little
expense or inconvenience to her family as under the present
circumstances.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If you were aware,” said Elizabeth, “of the very great disadvantage to
us all, which must arise from the public notice of Lydia’s unguarded and
imprudent manner, nay, which has already arisen from it, I am sure you
would judge differently in the affair.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Already arisen!” repeated Mr. Bennet. “What! has she frightened away
some of your lovers? Poor little Lizzy! But do not be cast down. Such
squeamish youths as cannot bear to be connected with a little absurdity
are not worth a regret. Come, let me see the list of the pitiful fellows
who have been kept aloof by Lydia’s folly.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Indeed, you are mistaken. I have no such injuries to resent. It is not
of peculiar, but of general evils, which I am now complaining. Our
importance, our respectability in the world, must be affected by the
wild volatility, the assurance and disdain of all restraint which mark
Lydia’s character. Excuse me,--for I must speak plainly. If you, my dear
father, will not take the trouble of checking her exuberant spirits, and
of teaching her that her present pursuits are not to be the business of
her life, she will soon be beyond the reach of amendment. Her character
will be fixed; and she will, at sixteen, be the most determined flirt
that ever made herself and her family ridiculous;--a flirt, too, in the
worst and meanest degree of flirtation; without any attraction beyond
youth and a tolerable person; and, from the ignorance and emptiness of
her mind, wholly unable to ward off any portion of that universal
contempt which her rage for admiration will excite. In this danger Kitty
is also comprehended. She will follow wherever Lydia leads. Vain,
ignorant, idle, and absolutely uncontrolled! Oh, my dear father, can you
suppose it possible that they will not be censured and despised wherever
they are known, and that their sisters will not be often involved in the
disgrace?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Do not make yourself uneasy, my love. Wherever you and Jane are known,
you must be respected and valued; and you will not appear to less
advantage for having a couple of--or I may say, three--very silly
sisters. We shall have no peace at Longbourn if Lydia does not go to
Brighton. Let her go, then. Colonel Forster is a sensible man, and will
keep her out of any real mischief; and she is luckily too poor to be an
object of prey to anybody. At Brighton she will be of less importance
even as a common flirt than she has been here. The officers will find
women better worth their notice. Let us hope, therefore, that her being
there may teach her her own insignificance. At any rate, she cannot grow
many degrees worse, without authorizing us to lock her up for the rest
of her life.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> With this answer Elizabeth was forced to be content; but her own opinion
continued the same, and she left him disappointed and sorry. It was not
in her nature, however, to increase her vexations by dwelling on them.
She was confident of having performed her duty; and to fret over
unavoidable evils, or augment them by anxiety, was no part of her
disposition. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Had Lydia and her mother known the substance of her conference with her
father, their indignation would hardly have found expression in their
united volubility. In Lydia’s imagination, a visit to Brighton comprised
every possibility of earthly happiness. She saw, with the creative eye
of fancy, the streets of that gay bathing-place covered with officers.
She saw herself the object of attention to tens and to scores of them at
present unknown. She saw all the glories of the camp: its tents
stretched forth in beauteous uniformity of lines, crowded with the young
and the gay, and dazzling with scarlet; and, to complete the view, she
saw herself seated beneath a tent, tenderly flirting with at least six
officers at once. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Had she known that her sister sought to tear her from such prospects and
such realities as these, what would have been her sensations? They could
have been understood only by her mother, who might have felt nearly the
same. Lydia’s going to Brighton was all that consoled her for the
melancholy conviction of her husband’s never intending to go there
himself. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But they were entirely ignorant of what had passed; and their raptures
continued, with little intermission, to the very day of Lydia’s leaving
home. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth was now to see Mr. Wickham for the last time. Having been
frequently in company with him since her return, agitation was pretty
well over; the agitations of former partiality entirely so. She had even
learnt to detect, in the very gentleness which had first delighted her,
an affectation and a sameness to disgust and weary. In his present
behaviour to herself, moreover, she had a fresh source of displeasure;
for the inclination he soon testified of renewing those attentions which
had marked the early part of their acquaintance could only serve, after
what had since passed, to provoke her. She lost all concern for him in
finding herself thus selected as the object of such idle and frivolous
gallantry; and while she steadily repressed it, could not but feel the
reproof contained in his believing, that however long, and for whatever
cause, his attentions had been withdrawn, her vanity would be gratified,
and her preference secured, at any time, by their renewal. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> On the very last day of the regiment’s remaining in Meryton, he dined,
with others of the officers, at Longbourn; and so little was Elizabeth
disposed to part from him in good-humour, that, on his making some
inquiry as to the manner in which her time had passed at Hunsford, she
mentioned Colonel Fitzwilliam’s and Mr. Darcy’s having both spent three
weeks at Rosings, and asked him if he were acquainted with the former. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He looked surprised, displeased, alarmed; but, with a moment’s
recollection, and a returning smile, replied, that he had formerly seen
him often; and, after observing that he was a very gentlemanlike man,
asked her how she had liked him. Her answer was warmly in his favour.
With an air of indifference, he soon afterwards added, “How long did you
say that he was at Rosings?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Indeed!” cried Wickham, with a look which did not escape her. “And pray
may I ask--” but checking himself, he added, in a gayer tone, “Is it in
address that he improves? Has he deigned to add aught of civility to his
ordinary style? for I dare not hope,” he continued, in a lower and more
serious tone, “that he is improved in essentials.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> While she spoke, Wickham looked as if scarcely knowing whether to
rejoice over her words or to distrust their meaning. There was a
something in her countenance which made him listen with an apprehensive
and anxious attention, while she added,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “When I said that he improved on acquaintance, I did not mean that
either his mind or manners were in a state of improvement; but that,
from knowing him better, his disposition was better understood.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Wickham’s alarm now appeared in a heightened complexion and agitated
look; for a few minutes he was silent; till, shaking off his
embarrassment, he turned to her again, and said in the gentlest of
accents,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You, who so well know my feelings towards Mr. Darcy, will readily
comprehend how sincerely I must rejoice that he is wise enough to assume
even the _appearance_ of what is right. His pride, in that direction,
may be of service, if not to himself, to many others, for it must deter
him from such foul misconduct as I have suffered by. I only fear that
the sort of cautiousness to which you, I imagine, have been alluding, is
merely adopted on his visits to his aunt, of whose good opinion and
judgment he stands much in awe. His fear of her has always operated, I
know, when they were together; and a good deal is to be imputed to his
wish of forwarding the match with Miss de Bourgh, which I am certain he
has very much at heart.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth could not repress a smile at this, but she answered only by a
slight inclination of the head. She saw that he wanted to engage her on
the old subject of his grievances, and she was in no humour to indulge
him. The rest of the evening passed with the _appearance_, on his side,
of usual cheerfulness, but with no further attempt to distinguish
Elizabeth; and they parted at last with mutual civility, and possibly a
mutual desire of never meeting again. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When the party broke up, Lydia returned with Mrs. Forster to Meryton,
from whence they were to set out early the next morning. The separation
between her and her family was rather noisy than pathetic. Kitty was the
only one who shed tears; but she did weep from vexation and envy. Mrs.
Bennet was diffuse in her good wishes for the felicity of her daughter,
and impressive in her injunctions that she would not miss the
opportunity of enjoying herself as much as possible,--advice which there
was every reason to believe would be attended to; and, in the clamorous
happiness of Lydia herself in bidding farewell, the more gentle adieus
of her sisters were uttered without being heard. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Had Elizabeth’s opinion been all drawn from her own family, she could
not have formed a very pleasing picture of conjugal felicity or domestic
comfort. Her father, captivated by youth and beauty, and that appearance
of good-humour which youth and beauty generally give, had married a
woman whose weak understanding and illiberal mind had very early in
their marriage put an end to all real affection for her. Respect,
esteem, and confidence had vanished for ever; and all his views of
domestic happiness were overthrown. But Mr. Bennet was not of a
disposition to seek comfort for the disappointment which his own
imprudence had brought on in any of those pleasures which too often
console the unfortunate for their folly or their vice. He was fond of
the country and of books; and from these tastes had arisen his principal
enjoyments. To his wife he was very little otherwise indebted than as
her ignorance and folly had contributed to his amusement. This is not
the sort of happiness which a man would in general wish to owe to his
wife; but where other powers of entertainment are wanting, the true
philosopher will derive benefit from such as are given. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth, however, had never been blind to the impropriety of her
father’s behaviour as a husband. She had always seen it with pain; but
respecting his abilities, and grateful for his affectionate treatment of
herself, she endeavoured to forget what she could not overlook, and to
banish from her thoughts that continual breach of conjugal obligation
and decorum which, in exposing his wife to the contempt of her own
children, was so highly reprehensible. But she had never felt so
strongly as now the disadvantages which must attend the children of so
unsuitable a marriage, nor ever been so fully aware of the evils arising
from so ill-judged a direction of talents--talents which, rightly used,
might at least have preserved the respectability of his daughters, even
if incapable of enlarging the mind of his wife. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When Elizabeth had rejoiced over Wickham’s departure, she found little
other cause for satisfaction in the loss of the regiment. Their parties
abroad were less varied than before; and at home she had a mother and
sister, whose constant repinings at the dulness of everything around
them threw a real gloom over their domestic circle; and, though Kitty
might in time regain her natural degree of sense, since the disturbers
of her brain were removed, her other sister, from whose disposition
greater evil might be apprehended, was likely to be hardened in all her
folly and assurance, by a situation of such double danger as a
watering-place and a camp. Upon the whole, therefore, she found, what
has been sometimes found before, that an event to which she had looked
forward with impatient desire, did not, in taking place, bring all the
satisfaction she had promised herself. It was consequently necessary to
name some other period for the commencement of actual felicity; to have
some other point on which her wishes and hopes might be fixed, and by
again enjoying the pleasure of anticipation, console herself for the
present, and prepare for another disappointment. Her tour to the Lakes
was now the object of her happiest thoughts: it was her best consolation
for all the uncomfortable hours which the discontentedness of her mother
and Kitty made inevitable; and could she have included Jane in the
scheme, every part of it would have been perfect. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But it is fortunate,” thought she, “that I have something to wish for.
Were the whole arrangement complete, my disappointment would be certain.
But here, by carrying with me one ceaseless source of regret in my
sister’s absence, I may reasonably hope to have all my expectations of
pleasure realized. A scheme of which every part promises delight can
never be successful; and general disappointment is only warded off by
the defence of some little peculiar vexation.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When Lydia went away she promised to write very often and very minutely
to her mother and Kitty; but her letters were always long expected, and
always very short. Those to her mother contained little else than that
they were just returned from the library, where such and such officers
had attended them, and where she had seen such beautiful ornaments as
made her quite wild; that she had a new gown, or a new parasol, which
she would have described more fully, but was obliged to leave off in a
violent hurry, as Mrs. Forster called her, and they were going to the
camp; and from her correspondence with her sister there was still less
to be learnt, for her letters to Kitty, though rather longer, were much
too full of lines under the words to be made public. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> After the first fortnight or three weeks of her absence, health,
good-humour, and cheerfulness began to reappear at Longbourn. Everything
wore a happier aspect. The families who had been in town for the winter
came back again, and summer finery and summer engagements arose. Mrs.
Bennet was restored to her usual querulous serenity; and by the middle
of June Kitty was so much recovered as to be able to enter Meryton
without tears,--an event of such happy promise as to make Elizabeth
hope, that by the following Christmas she might be so tolerably
reasonable as not to mention an officer above once a day, unless, by
some cruel and malicious arrangement at the War Office, another regiment
should be quartered in Meryton. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The time fixed for the beginning of their northern tour was now fast
approaching; and a fortnight only was wanting of it, when a letter
arrived from Mrs. Gardiner, which at once delayed its commencement and
curtailed its extent. Mr. Gardiner would be prevented by business from
setting out till a fortnight later in July, and must be in London again
within a month; and as that left too short a period for them to go so
far, and see so much as they had proposed, or at least to see it with
the leisure and comfort they had built on, they were obliged to give up
the Lakes, and substitute a more contracted tour; and, according to the
present plan, were to go no farther northward than Derbyshire. In that
county there was enough to be seen to occupy the chief of their three
weeks; and to Mrs. Gardiner it had a peculiarly strong attraction. The
town where she had formerly passed some years of her life, and where
they were now to spend a few days, was probably as great an object of
her curiosity as all the celebrated beauties of Matlock, Chatsworth,
Dovedale, or the Peak. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth was excessively disappointed: she had set her heart on seeing
the Lakes; and still thought there might have been time enough. But it
was her business to be satisfied--and certainly her temper to be happy;
and all was soon right again. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> With the mention of Derbyshire, there were many ideas connected. It was
impossible for her to see the word without thinking of Pemberley and its
owner. “But surely,” said she, “I may enter his county with impunity,
and rob it of a few petrified spars, without his perceiving me.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The period of expectation was now doubled. Four weeks were to pass away
before her uncle and aunt’s arrival. But they did pass away, and Mr. and
Mrs. Gardiner, with their four children, did at length appear at
Longbourn. The children, two girls of six and eight years old, and two
younger boys, were to be left under the particular care of their cousin
Jane, who was the general favourite, and whose steady sense and
sweetness of temper exactly adapted her for attending to them in every
way--teaching them, playing with them, and loving them. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Gardiners stayed only one night at Longbourn, and set off the next
morning with Elizabeth in pursuit of novelty and amusement. One
enjoyment was certain--that of suitableness as companions; a
suitableness which comprehended health and temper to bear
inconveniences--cheerfulness to enhance every pleasure--and affection
and intelligence, which might supply it among themselves if there were
disappointments abroad. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It is not the object of this work to give a description of Derbyshire,
nor of any of the remarkable places through which their route thither
lay--Oxford, Blenheim, Warwick, Kenilworth, Birmingham, etc., are
sufficiently known. A small part of Derbyshire is all the present
concern. To the little town of Lambton, the scene of Mrs. Gardiner’s
former residence, and where she had lately learned that some
acquaintance still remained, they bent their steps, after having seen
all the principal wonders of the country; and within five miles of
Lambton, Elizabeth found, from her aunt, that Pemberley was situated. It
was not in their direct road; nor more than a mile or two out of it. In
talking over their route the evening before, Mrs. Gardiner expressed an
inclination to see the place again. Mr. Gardiner declared his
willingness, and Elizabeth was applied to for her approbation. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My love, should not you like to see a place of which you have heard so
much?” said her aunt. “A place, too, with which so many of your
acquaintance are connected. Wickham passed all his youth there, you
know.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth was distressed. She felt that she had no business at
Pemberley, and was obliged to assume a disinclination for seeing it. She
must own that she was tired of great houses: after going over so many,
she really had no pleasure in fine carpets or satin curtains. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Gardiner abused her stupidity. “If it were merely a fine house
richly furnished,” said she, “I should not care about it myself; but the
grounds are delightful. They have some of the finest woods in the
country.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth said no more; but her mind could not acquiesce. The
possibility of meeting Mr. Darcy, while viewing the place, instantly
occurred. It would be dreadful! She blushed at the very idea; and
thought it would be better to speak openly to her aunt, than to run such
a risk. But against this there were objections; and she finally resolved
that it could be the last resource, if her private inquiries as to the
absence of the family were unfavourably answered. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Accordingly, when she retired at night, she asked the chambermaid
whether Pemberley were not a very fine place, what was the name of its
proprietor, and, with no little alarm, whether the family were down for
the summer? A most welcome negative followed the last question; and her
alarms being now removed, she was at leisure to feel a great deal of
curiosity to see the house herself; and when the subject was revived the
next morning, and she was again applied to, could readily answer, and
with a proper air of indifference, that she had not really any dislike
to the scheme. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth, as they drove along, watched for the first appearance of
Pemberley Woods with some perturbation; and when at length they turned
in at the lodge, her spirits were in a high flutter. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The park was very large, and contained great variety of ground. They
entered it in one of its lowest points, and drove for some time through
a beautiful wood stretching over a wide extent. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth’s mind was too full for conversation, but she saw and admired
every remarkable spot and point of view. They gradually ascended for
half a mile, and then found themselves at the top of a considerable
eminence, where the wood ceased, and the eye was instantly caught by
Pemberley House, situated on the opposite side of the valley, into which
the road with some abruptness wound. It was a large, handsome stone
building, standing well on rising ground, and backed by a ridge of high
woody hills; and in front a stream of some natural importance was
swelled into greater, but without any artificial appearance. Its banks
were neither formal nor falsely adorned. Elizabeth was delighted. She
had never seen a place for which nature had done more, or where natural
beauty had been so little counteracted by an awkward taste. They were
all of them warm in their admiration; and at that moment she felt that
to be mistress of Pemberley might be something! </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> They descended the hill, crossed the bridge, and drove to the door; and,
while examining the nearer aspect of the house, all her apprehension of
meeting its owner returned. She dreaded lest the chambermaid had been
mistaken. On applying to see the place, they were admitted into the
hall; and Elizabeth, as they waited for the housekeeper, had leisure to
wonder at her being where she was. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The housekeeper came; a respectable looking elderly woman, much less
fine, and more civil, than she had any notion of finding her. They
followed her into the dining-parlour. It was a large, well-proportioned
room, handsomely fitted up. Elizabeth, after slightly surveying it, went
to a window to enjoy its prospect. The hill, crowned with wood, from
which they had descended, receiving increased abruptness from the
distance, was a beautiful object. Every disposition of the ground was
good; and she looked on the whole scene, the river, the trees scattered
on its banks, and the winding of the valley, as far as she could trace
it, with delight. As they passed into other rooms, these objects were
taking different positions; but from every window there were beauties
to be seen. The rooms were lofty and handsome, and their furniture
suitable to the fortune of their proprietor; but Elizabeth saw, with
admiration of his taste, that it was neither gaudy nor uselessly
fine,--with less of splendour, and more real elegance, than the
furniture of Rosings. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And of this place,” thought she, “I might have been mistress! With
these rooms I might have now been familiarly acquainted! Instead of
viewing them as a stranger, I might have rejoiced in them as my own, and
welcomed to them as visitors my uncle and aunt. But, no,” recollecting
herself, “that could never be; my uncle and aunt would have been lost to
me; I should not have been allowed to invite them.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She longed to inquire of the housekeeper whether her master were really
absent, but had not courage for it. At length, however, the question was
asked by her uncle; and she turned away with alarm, while Mrs. Reynolds
replied, that he was; adding, “But we expect him to-morrow, with a large
party of friends.” How rejoiced was Elizabeth that their own journey had
not by any circumstance been delayed a day! </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Her aunt now called her to look at a picture. She approached, and saw
the likeness of Mr. Wickham, suspended, amongst several other
miniatures, over the mantel-piece. Her aunt asked her, smilingly, how
she liked it. The housekeeper came forward, and told them it was the
picture of a young gentleman, the son of her late master’s steward, who
had been brought up by him at his own expense. “He is now gone into the
army,” she added; “but I am afraid he has turned out very wild.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And that,” said Mrs. Reynolds, pointing to another of the miniatures,
“is my master--and very like him. It was drawn at the same time as the
other--about eight years ago.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have heard much of your master’s fine person,” said Mrs. Gardiner,
looking at the picture; “it is a handsome face. But, Lizzy, you can tell
us whether it is like or not.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am sure _I_ know none so handsome; but in the gallery upstairs you
will see a finer, larger picture of him than this. This room was my late
master’s favourite room, and these miniatures are just as they used to
be then. He was very fond of them.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, yes--the handsomest young lady that ever was seen; and so
accomplished! She plays and sings all day long. In the next room is a
new instrument just come down for her--a present from my master: she
comes here to-morrow with him.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Gardiner, whose manners were easy and pleasant, encouraged her
communicativeness by his questions and remarks: Mrs. Reynolds, either
from pride or attachment, had evidently great pleasure in talking of her
master and his sister. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Not so much as I could wish, sir: but I dare say he may spend half his
time here; and Miss Darcy is always down for the summer months.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, sir; but I do not know when _that_ will be. I do not know who is
good enough for him.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner smiled. Elizabeth could not help saying, “It is
very much to his credit, I am sure, that you should think so.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I say no more than the truth, and what everybody will say that knows
him,” replied the other. Elizabeth thought this was going pretty far;
and she listened with increasing astonishment as the housekeeper added,
“I have never had a cross word from him in my life, and I have known him
ever since he was four years old.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This was praise of all others most extraordinary, most opposite to her
ideas. That he was not a good-tempered man had been her firmest opinion.
Her keenest attention was awakened: she longed to hear more; and was
grateful to her uncle for saying,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, sir, I know I am. If I were to go through the world, I could not
meet with a better. But I have always observed, that they who are
good-natured when children, are good-natured when they grow up; and he
was always the sweetest tempered, most generous-hearted boy in the
world.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth listened, wondered, doubted, and was impatient for more. Mrs.
Reynolds could interest her on no other point. She related the subjects
of the pictures, the dimensions of the rooms, and the price of the
furniture in vain. Mr. Gardiner, highly amused by the kind of family
prejudice, to which he attributed her excessive commendation of her
master, soon led again to the subject; and she dwelt with energy on his
many merits, as they proceeded together up the great staircase. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He is the best landlord, and the best master,” said she, “that ever
lived. Not like the wild young men now-a-days, who think of nothing but
themselves. There is not one of his tenants or servants but what will
give him a good name. Some people call him proud; but I am sure I never
saw anything of it. To my fancy, it is only because he does not rattle
away like other young men.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This fine account of him,” whispered her aunt as they walked, “is not
quite consistent with his behaviour to our poor friend.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> On reaching the spacious lobby above, they were shown into a very pretty
sitting-room, lately fitted up with greater elegance and lightness than
the apartments below; and were informed that it was but just done to
give pleasure to Miss Darcy, who had taken a liking to the room, when
last at Pemberley. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Reynolds anticipated Miss Darcy’s delight, when she should enter
the room. “And this is always the way with him,” she added. “Whatever
can give his sister any pleasure, is sure to be done in a moment. There
is nothing he would not do for her.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The picture gallery, and two or three of the principal bed-rooms, were
all that remained to be shown. In the former were many good paintings:
but Elizabeth knew nothing of the art; and from such as had been already
visible below, she had willingly turned to look at some drawings of Miss
Darcy’s, in crayons, whose subjects were usually more interesting, and
also more intelligible. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In the gallery there were many family portraits, but they could have
little to fix the attention of a stranger. Elizabeth walked on in quest
of the only face whose features would be known to her. At last it
arrested her--and she beheld a striking resemblance of Mr. Darcy, with
such a smile over the face, as she remembered to have sometimes seen,
when he looked at her. She stood several minutes before the picture, in
earnest contemplation, and returned to it again before they quitted the
gallery. Mrs. Reynolds informed them, that it had been taken in his
father’s lifetime. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> There was certainly at this moment, in Elizabeth’s mind, a more gentle
sensation towards the original than she had ever felt in the height of
their acquaintance. The commendation bestowed on him by Mrs. Reynolds
was of no trifling nature. What praise is more valuable than the praise
of an intelligent servant? As a brother, a landlord, a master, she
considered how many people’s happiness were in his guardianship! How
much of pleasure or pain it was in his power to bestow! How much of good
or evil must be done by him! Every idea that had been brought forward by
the housekeeper was favourable to his character; and as she stood before
the canvas, on which he was represented, and fixed his eyes upon
herself, she thought of his regard with a deeper sentiment of gratitude
than it had ever raised before: she remembered its warmth, and softened
its impropriety of expression. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When all of the house that was open to general inspection had been seen,
they returned down stairs; and, taking leave of the housekeeper, were
consigned over to the gardener, who met them at the hall door. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As they walked across the lawn towards the river, Elizabeth turned back
to look again; her uncle and aunt stopped also; and while the former was
conjecturing as to the date of the building, the owner of it himself
suddenly came forward from the road which led behind it to the stables. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> They were within twenty yards of each other; and so abrupt was his
appearance, that it was impossible to avoid his sight. Their eyes
instantly met, and the cheeks of each were overspread with the deepest
blush. He absolutely started, and for a moment seemed immovable from
surprise; but shortly recovering himself, advanced towards the party,
and spoke to Elizabeth, if not in terms of perfect composure, at least
of perfect civility. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She had instinctively turned away; but stopping on his approach,
received his compliments with an embarrassment impossible to be
overcome. Had his first appearance, or his resemblance to the picture
they had just been examining, been insufficient to assure the other two
that they now saw Mr. Darcy, the gardener’s expression of surprise, on
beholding his master, must immediately have told it. They stood a little
aloof while he was talking to their niece, who, astonished and confused,
scarcely dared lift her eyes to his face, and knew not what answer she
returned to his civil inquiries after her family. Amazed at the
alteration of his manner since they last parted, every sentence that he
uttered was increasing her embarrassment; and every idea of the
impropriety of her being found there recurring to her mind, the few
minutes in which they continued together were some of the most
uncomfortable of her life. Nor did he seem much more at ease; when he
spoke, his accent had none of its usual sedateness; and he repeated his
inquiries as to the time of her having left Longbourn, and of her stay
in Derbyshire, so often, and in so hurried a way, as plainly spoke the
distraction of his thoughts. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> At length, every idea seemed to fail him; and after standing a few
moments without saying a word, he suddenly recollected himself, and took
leave. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The others then joined her, and expressed their admiration of his
figure; but Elizabeth heard not a word, and, wholly engrossed by her own
feelings, followed them in silence. She was overpowered by shame and
vexation. Her coming there was the most unfortunate, the most ill-judged
thing in the world! How strange must it appear to him! In what a
disgraceful light might it not strike so vain a man! It might seem as if
she had purposely thrown herself in his way again! Oh! why did she come?
or, why did he thus come a day before he was expected? Had they been
only ten minutes sooner, they should have been beyond the reach of his
discrimination; for it was plain that he was that moment arrived, that
moment alighted from his horse or his carriage. She blushed again and
again over the perverseness of the meeting. And his behaviour, so
strikingly altered,--what could it mean? That he should even speak to
her was amazing!--but to speak with such civility, to inquire after her
family! Never in her life had she seen his manners so little dignified,
never had he spoken with such gentleness as on this unexpected meeting.
What a contrast did it offer to his last address in Rosings Park, when
he put his letter into her hand! She knew not what to think, or how to
account for it. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> They had now entered a beautiful walk by the side of the water, and
every step was bringing forward a nobler fall of ground, or a finer
reach of the woods to which they were approaching: but it was some time
before Elizabeth was sensible of any of it; and, though she answered
mechanically to the repeated appeals of her uncle and aunt, and seemed
to direct her eyes to such objects as they pointed out, she
distinguished no part of the scene. Her thoughts were all fixed on that
one spot of Pemberley House, whichever it might be, where Mr. Darcy then
was. She longed to know what at that moment was passing in his mind; in
what manner he thought of her, and whether, in defiance of everything,
she was still dear to him. Perhaps he had been civil only because he
felt himself at ease; yet there had been _that_ in his voice, which was
not like ease. Whether he had felt more of pain or of pleasure in seeing
her, she could not tell, but he certainly had not seen her with
composure. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> At length, however, the remarks of her companions on her absence of mind
roused her, and she felt the necessity of appearing more like herself. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> They entered the woods, and, bidding adieu to the river for a while,
ascended some of the higher grounds; whence, in spots where the opening
of the trees gave the eye power to wander, were many charming views of
the valley, the opposite hills, with the long range of woods
overspreading many, and occasionally part of the stream. Mr. Gardiner
expressed a wish of going round the whole park, but feared it might be
beyond a walk. With a triumphant smile, they were told, that it was ten
miles round. It settled the matter; and they pursued the accustomed
circuit; which brought them again, after some time, in a descent among
hanging woods, to the edge of the water, and one of its narrowest parts.
They crossed it by a simple bridge, in character with the general air of
the scene: it was a spot less adorned than any they had yet visited; and
the valley, here contracted into a glen, allowed room only for the
stream, and a narrow walk amidst the rough coppice-wood which bordered
it. Elizabeth longed to explore its windings; but when they had crossed
the bridge, and perceived their distance from the house, Mrs. Gardiner,
who was not a great walker, could go no farther, and thought only of
returning to the carriage as quickly as possible. Her niece was,
therefore, obliged to submit, and they took their way towards the house
on the opposite side of the river, in the nearest direction; but their
progress was slow, for Mr. Gardiner, though seldom able to indulge the
taste, was very fond of fishing, and was so much engaged in watching the
occasional appearance of some trout in the water, and talking to the man
about them, that he advanced but little. Whilst wandering on in this
slow manner, they were again surprised, and Elizabeth’s astonishment was
quite equal to what it had been at first, by the sight of Mr. Darcy
approaching them, and at no great distance. The walk being here less
sheltered than on the other side, allowed them to see him before they
met. Elizabeth, however astonished, was at least more prepared for an
interview than before, and resolved to appear and to speak with
calmness, if he really intended to meet them. For a few moments, indeed,
she felt that he would probably strike into some other path. The idea
lasted while a turning in the walk concealed him from their view; the
turning past, he was immediately before them. With a glance she saw that
he had lost none of his recent civility; and, to imitate his politeness,
she began as they met to admire the beauty of the place; but she had not
got beyond the words “delightful,” and “charming,” when some unlucky
recollections obtruded, and she fancied that praise of Pemberley from
her might be mischievously construed. Her colour changed, and she said
no more. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Gardiner was standing a little behind; and on her pausing, he asked
her if she would do him the honour of introducing him to her friends.
This was a stroke of civility for which she was quite unprepared; and
she could hardly suppress a smile at his being now seeking the
acquaintance of some of those very people, against whom his pride had
revolted, in his offer to herself. “What will be his surprise,” thought
she, “when he knows who they are! He takes them now for people of
fashion.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The introduction, however, was immediately made; and as she named their
relationship to herself, she stole a sly look at him, to see how he bore
it; and was not without the expectation of his decamping as fast as he
could from such disgraceful companions. That he was _surprised_ by the
connection was evident: he sustained it, however, with fortitude: and,
so far from going away, turned back with them, and entered into
conversation with Mr. Gardiner. Elizabeth could not but be pleased,
could not but triumph. It was consoling that he should know she had some
relations for whom there was no need to blush. She listened most
attentively to all that passed between them, and gloried in every
expression, every sentence of her uncle, which marked his intelligence,
his taste, or his good manners. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The conversation soon turned upon fishing; and she heard Mr. Darcy
invite him, with the greatest civility, to fish there as often as he
chose, while he continued in the neighbourhood, offering at the same
time to supply him with fishing tackle, and pointing out those parts of
the stream where there was usually most sport. Mrs. Gardiner, who was
walking arm in arm with Elizabeth, gave her a look expressive of her
wonder. Elizabeth said nothing, but it gratified her exceedingly; the
compliment must be all for herself. Her astonishment, however, was
extreme; and continually was she repeating, “Why is he so altered? From
what can it proceed? It cannot be for _me_, it cannot be for _my_ sake
that his manners are thus softened. My reproofs at Hunsford could not
work such a change as this. It is impossible that he should still love
me.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> After walking some time in this way, the two ladies in front, the two
gentlemen behind, on resuming their places, after descending to the
brink of the river for the better inspection of some curious
water-plant, there chanced to be a little alteration. It originated in
Mrs. Gardiner, who, fatigued by the exercise of the morning, found
Elizabeth’s arm inadequate to her support, and consequently preferred
her husband’s. Mr. Darcy took her place by her niece, and they walked on
together. After a short silence the lady first spoke. She wished him to
know that she had been assured of his absence before she came to the
place, and accordingly began by observing, that his arrival had been
very unexpected--“for your housekeeper,” she added, “informed us that
you would certainly not be here till to-morrow; and, indeed, before we
left Bakewell, we understood that you were not immediately expected in
the country.” He acknowledged the truth of it all; and said that
business with his steward had occasioned his coming forward a few hours
before the rest of the party with whom he had been travelling. “They
will join me early to-morrow,” he continued, “and among them are some
who will claim an acquaintance with you,--Mr. Bingley and his sisters.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth answered only by a slight bow. Her thoughts were instantly
driven back to the time when Mr. Bingley’s name had been last mentioned
between them; and if she might judge from his complexion, _his_ mind was
not very differently engaged. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “There is also one other person in the party,” he continued after a
pause, “who more particularly wishes to be known to you. Will you allow
me, or do I ask too much, to introduce my sister to your acquaintance
during your stay at Lambton?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The surprise of such an application was great indeed; it was too great
for her to know in what manner she acceded to it. She immediately felt
that whatever desire Miss Darcy might have of being acquainted with her,
must be the work of her brother, and without looking farther, it was
satisfactory; it was gratifying to know that his resentment had not made
him think really ill of her. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> They now walked on in silence; each of them deep in thought. Elizabeth
was not comfortable; that was impossible; but she was flattered and
pleased. His wish of introducing his sister to her was a compliment of
the highest kind. They soon outstripped the others; and when they had
reached the carriage, Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner were half a quarter of a
mile behind. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He then asked her to walk into the house--but she declared herself not
tired, and they stood together on the lawn. At such a time much might
have been said, and silence was very awkward. She wanted to talk, but
there seemed an embargo on every subject. At last she recollected that
she had been travelling, and they talked of Matlock and Dovedale with
great perseverance. Yet time and her aunt moved slowly--and her patience
and her ideas were nearly worn out before the _tête-à-tête_ was over. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> On Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner’s coming up they were all pressed to go into
the house and take some refreshment; but this was declined, and they
parted on each side with the utmost politeness. Mr. Darcy handed the
ladies into the carriage; and when it drove off, Elizabeth saw him
walking slowly towards the house. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The observations of her uncle and aunt now began; and each of them
pronounced him to be infinitely superior to anything they had expected. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “There _is_ something a little stately in him, to be sure,” replied her
aunt; “but it is confined to his air, and is not unbecoming. I can now
say with the housekeeper, that though some people may call him proud,
_I_ have seen nothing of it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I was never more surprised than by his behaviour to us. It was more
than civil; it was really attentive; and there was no necessity for such
attention. His acquaintance with Elizabeth was very trifling.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “To be sure, Lizzy,” said her aunt, “he is not so handsome as Wickham;
or rather he has not Wickham’s countenance, for his features are
perfectly good. But how came you to tell us that he was so
disagreeable?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth excused herself as well as she could: said that she had liked
him better when they met in Kent than before, and that she had never
seen him so pleasant as this morning. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But perhaps he may be a little whimsical in his civilities,” replied
her uncle. “Your great men often are; and therefore I shall not take him
at his word about fishing, as he might change his mind another day, and
warn me off his grounds.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “From what we have seen of him,” continued Mrs. Gardiner, “I really
should not have thought that he could have behaved in so cruel a way by
anybody as he has done by poor Wickham. He has not an ill-natured look.
On the contrary, there is something pleasing about his mouth when he
speaks. And there is something of dignity in his countenance, that would
not give one an unfavourable idea of his heart. But, to be sure, the
good lady who showed us the house did give him a most flaming character!
I could hardly help laughing aloud sometimes. But he is a liberal
master, I suppose, and _that_, in the eye of a servant, comprehends
every virtue.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth here felt herself called on to say something in vindication of
his behaviour to Wickham; and, therefore, gave them to understand, in as
guarded a manner as she could, that by what she had heard from his
relations in Kent, his actions were capable of a very different
construction; and that his character was by no means so faulty, nor
Wickham’s so amiable, as they had been considered in Hertfordshire. In
confirmation of this, she related the particulars of all the pecuniary
transactions in which they had been connected, without actually naming
her authority, but stating it to be such as might be relied on. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Gardiner was surprised and concerned: but as they were now
approaching the scene of her former pleasures, every idea gave way to
the charm of recollection; and she was too much engaged in pointing out
to her husband all the interesting spots in its environs, to think of
anything else. Fatigued as she had been by the morning’s walk, they had
no sooner dined than she set off again in quest of her former
acquaintance, and the evening was spent in the satisfactions of an
intercourse renewed after many years’ discontinuance. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The occurrences of the day were too full of interest to leave Elizabeth
much attention for any of these new friends; and she could do nothing
but think, and think with wonder, of Mr. Darcy’s civility, and, above
all, of his wishing her to be acquainted with his sister. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth had settled it that Mr. Darcy would bring his sister to visit
her the very day after her reaching Pemberley; and was, consequently,
resolved not to be out of sight of the inn the whole of that morning.
But her conclusion was false; for on the very morning after their own
arrival at Lambton these visitors came. They had been walking about the
place with some of their new friends, and were just returned to the inn
to dress themselves for dining with the same family, when the sound of a
carriage drew them to a window, and they saw a gentleman and lady in a
curricle driving up the street. Elizabeth, immediately recognizing the
livery, guessed what it meant, and imparted no small degree of surprise
to her relations, by acquainting them with the honour which she
expected. Her uncle and aunt were all amazement; and the embarrassment
of her manner as she spoke, joined to the circumstance itself, and many
of the circumstances of the preceding day, opened to them a new idea on
the business. Nothing had ever suggested it before, but they now felt
that there was no other way of accounting for such attentions from such
a quarter than by supposing a partiality for their niece. While these
newly-born notions were passing in their heads, the perturbation of
Elizabeth’s feelings was every moment increasing. She was quite amazed
at her own discomposure; but, amongst other causes of disquiet, she
dreaded lest the partiality of the brother should have said too much in
her favour; and, more than commonly anxious to please, she naturally
suspected that every power of pleasing would fail her. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She retreated from the window, fearful of being seen; and as she walked
up and down the room, endeavouring to compose herself, saw such looks of
inquiring surprise in her uncle and aunt as made everything worse. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Miss Darcy and her brother appeared, and this formidable introduction
took place. With astonishment did Elizabeth see that her new
acquaintance was at least as much embarrassed as herself. Since her
being at Lambton, she had heard that Miss Darcy was exceedingly proud;
but the observation of a very few minutes convinced her that she was
only exceedingly shy. She found it difficult to obtain even a word from
her beyond a monosyllable. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Miss Darcy was tall, and on a larger scale than Elizabeth; and, though
little more than sixteen, her figure was formed, and her appearance
womanly and graceful. She was less handsome than her brother, but there
was sense and good-humour in her face, and her manners were perfectly
unassuming and gentle. Elizabeth, who had expected to find in her as
acute and unembarrassed an observer as ever Mr. Darcy had been, was much
relieved by discerning such different feelings. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> They had not been long together before Darcy told her that Bingley was
also coming to wait on her; and she had barely time to express her
satisfaction, and prepare for such a visitor, when Bingley’s quick step
was heard on the stairs, and in a moment he entered the room. All
Elizabeth’s anger against him had been long done away; but had she still
felt any, it could hardly have stood its ground against the unaffected
cordiality with which he expressed himself on seeing her again. He
inquired in a friendly, though general, way, after her family, and
looked and spoke with the same good-humoured ease that he had ever done. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> To Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner he was scarcely a less interesting personage
than to herself. They had long wished to see him. The whole party before
them, indeed, excited a lively attention. The suspicions which had just
arisen of Mr. Darcy and their niece, directed their observation towards
each with an earnest, though guarded, inquiry; and they soon drew from
those inquiries the full conviction that one of them at least knew what
it was to love. Of the lady’s sensations they remained a little in
doubt; but that the gentleman was overflowing with admiration was
evident enough. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth, on her side, had much to do. She wanted to ascertain the
feelings of each of her visitors, she wanted to compose her own, and to
make herself agreeable to all; and in the latter object, where she
feared most to fail, she was most sure of success, for those to whom
she endeavoured to give pleasure were pre-possessed in her favour.
Bingley was ready, Georgiana was eager, and Darcy determined, to be
pleased. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In seeing Bingley, her thoughts naturally flew to her sister; and oh!
how ardently did she long to know whether any of his were directed in a
like manner. Sometimes she could fancy that he talked less than on
former occasions, and once or twice pleased herself with the notion
that, as he looked at her, he was trying to trace a resemblance. But,
though this might be imaginary, she could not be deceived as to his
behaviour to Miss Darcy, who had been set up as a rival to Jane. No
look appeared on either side that spoke particular regard. Nothing
occurred between them that could justify the hopes of his sister. On
this point she was soon satisfied; and two or three little circumstances
occurred ere they parted, which, in her anxious interpretation, denoted
a recollection of Jane, not untinctured by tenderness, and a wish of
saying more that might lead to the mention of her, had he dared. He
observed to her, at a moment when the others were talking together, and
in a tone which had something of real regret, that it “was a very long
time since he had had the pleasure of seeing her;” and, before she could
reply, he added, “It is above eight months. We have not met since the
26th of November, when we were all dancing together at Netherfield.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth was pleased to find his memory so exact; and he afterwards
took occasion to ask her, when unattended to by any of the rest, whether
_all_ her sisters were at Longbourn. There was not much in the question,
nor in the preceding remark; but there was a look and a manner which
gave them meaning. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was not often that she could turn her eyes on Mr. Darcy himself; but
whenever she did catch a glimpse she saw an expression of general
complaisance, and in all that he said, she heard an accent so far
removed from _hauteur_ or disdain of his companions, as convinced her
that the improvement of manners which she had yesterday witnessed,
however temporary its existence might prove, had at least outlived one
day. When she saw him thus seeking the acquaintance, and courting the
good opinion of people with whom any intercourse a few months ago would
have been a disgrace; when she saw him thus civil, not only to herself,
but to the very relations whom he had openly disdained, and recollected
their last lively scene in Hunsford Parsonage, the difference, the
change was so great, and struck so forcibly on her mind, that she could
hardly restrain her astonishment from being visible. Never, even in the
company of his dear friends at Netherfield, or his dignified relations
at Rosings, had she seen him so desirous to please, so free from
self-consequence or unbending reserve, as now, when no importance could
result from the success of his endeavours, and when even the
acquaintance of those to whom his attentions were addressed, would draw
down the ridicule and censure of the ladies both of Netherfield and
Rosings. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Their visitors stayed with them above half an hour; and when they arose
to depart, Mr. Darcy called on his sister to join him in expressing
their wish of seeing Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner, and Miss Bennet, to dinner
at Pemberley, before they left the country. Miss Darcy, though with a
diffidence which marked her little in the habit of giving invitations,
readily obeyed. Mrs. Gardiner looked at her niece, desirous of knowing
how _she_, whom the invitation most concerned, felt disposed as to its
acceptance, but Elizabeth had turned away her head. Presuming, however,
that this studied avoidance spoke rather a momentary embarrassment than
any dislike of the proposal, and seeing in her husband, who was fond of
society, a perfect willingness to accept it, she ventured to engage for
her attendance, and the day after the next was fixed on. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Bingley expressed great pleasure in the certainty of seeing Elizabeth
again, having still a great deal to say to her, and many inquiries to
make after all their Hertfordshire friends. Elizabeth, construing all
this into a wish of hearing her speak of her sister, was pleased; and
on this account, as well as some others, found herself, when their
visitors left them, capable of considering the last half hour with some
satisfaction, though while it was passing the enjoyment of it had been
little. Eager to be alone, and fearful of inquiries or hints from her
uncle and aunt, she stayed with them only long enough to hear their
favourable opinion of Bingley, and then hurried away to dress. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But she had no reason to fear Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner’s curiosity; it was
not their wish to force her communication. It was evident that she was
much better acquainted with Mr. Darcy than they had before any idea of;
it was evident that he was very much in love with her. They saw much to
interest, but nothing to justify inquiry. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Of Mr. Darcy it was now a matter of anxiety to think well; and, as far
as their acquaintance reached, there was no fault to find. They could
not be untouched by his politeness; and had they drawn his character
from their own feelings and his servant’s report, without any reference
to any other account, the circle in Hertfordshire to which he was known
would not have recognized it for Mr. Darcy. There was now an interest,
however, in believing the housekeeper; and they soon became sensible
that the authority of a servant, who had known him since he was four
years old, and whose own manners indicated respectability, was not to be
hastily rejected. Neither had anything occurred in the intelligence of
their Lambton friends that could materially lessen its weight. They had
nothing to accuse him of but pride; pride he probably had, and if not,
it would certainly be imputed by the inhabitants of a small market town
where the family did not visit. It was acknowledged, however, that he
was a liberal man, and did much good among the poor. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> With respect to Wickham, the travellers soon found that he was not held
there in much estimation; for though the chief of his concerns with the
son of his patron were imperfectly understood, it was yet a well-known
fact that, on his quitting Derbyshire, he had left many debts behind
him, which Mr. Darcy afterwards discharged. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As for Elizabeth, her thoughts were at Pemberley this evening more than
the last; and the evening, though as it passed it seemed long, was not
long enough to determine her feelings towards _one_ in that mansion; and
she lay awake two whole hours, endeavouring to make them out. She
certainly did not hate him. No; hatred had vanished long ago, and she
had almost as long been ashamed of ever feeling a dislike against him,
that could be so called. The respect created by the conviction of his
valuable qualities, though at first unwillingly admitted, had for some
time ceased to be repugnant to her feelings; and it was now heightened
into somewhat of a friendlier nature by the testimony so highly in his
favour, and bringing forward his disposition in so amiable a light,
which yesterday had produced. But above all, above respect and esteem,
there was a motive within her of good-will which could not be
overlooked. It was gratitude;--gratitude, not merely for having once
loved her, but for loving her still well enough to forgive all the
petulance and acrimony of her manner in rejecting him, and all the
unjust accusations accompanying her rejection. He who, she had been
persuaded, would avoid her as his greatest enemy, seemed, on this
accidental meeting, most eager to preserve the acquaintance; and
without any indelicate display of regard, or any peculiarity of manner,
where their two selves only were concerned, was soliciting the good
opinion of her friends, and bent on making her known to his sister. Such
a change in a man of so much pride excited not only astonishment but
gratitude--for to love, ardent love, it must be attributed; and, as
such, its impression on her was of a sort to be encouraged, as by no
means unpleasing, though it could not be exactly defined. She respected,
she esteemed, she was grateful to him, she felt a real interest in his
welfare; and she only wanted to know how far she wished that welfare to
depend upon herself, and how far it would be for the happiness of both
that she should employ the power, which her fancy told her she still
possessed, of bringing on the renewal of his addresses. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It had been settled in the evening, between the aunt and niece, that
such a striking civility as Miss Darcy’s, in coming to them on the very
day of her arrival at Pemberley--for she had reached it only to a late
breakfast--ought to be imitated, though it could not be equalled, by
some exertion of politeness on their side; and, consequently, that it
would be highly expedient to wait on her at Pemberley the following
morning. They were, therefore, to go. Elizabeth was pleased; though when
she asked herself the reason, she had very little to say in reply. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Gardiner left them soon after breakfast. The fishing scheme had been
renewed the day before, and a positive engagement made of his meeting
some of the gentlemen at Pemberley by noon. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Convinced as Elizabeth now was that Miss Bingley’s dislike of her had
originated in jealousy, she could not help feeling how very unwelcome
her appearance at Pemberley must be to her, and was curious to know
with how much civility on that lady’s side the acquaintance would now
be renewed. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> On reaching the house, they were shown through the hall into the saloon,
whose northern aspect rendered it delightful for summer. Its windows,
opening to the ground, admitted a most refreshing view of the high woody
hills behind the house, and of the beautiful oaks and Spanish chestnuts
which were scattered over the intermediate lawn. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In this room they were received by Miss Darcy, who was sitting there
with Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley, and the lady with whom she lived in
London. Georgiana’s reception of them was very civil, but attended with
all that embarrassment which, though proceeding from shyness and the
fear of doing wrong, would easily give to those who felt themselves
inferior the belief of her being proud and reserved. Mrs. Gardiner and
her niece, however, did her justice, and pitied her. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> By Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley they were noticed only by a courtesy; and
on their being seated, a pause, awkward as such pauses must always be,
succeeded for a few moments. It was first broken by Mrs. Annesley, a
genteel, agreeable-looking woman, whose endeavour to introduce some kind
of discourse proved her to be more truly well-bred than either of the
others; and between her and Mrs. Gardiner, with occasional help from
Elizabeth, the conversation was carried on. Miss Darcy looked as if she
wished for courage enough to join in it; and sometimes did venture a
short sentence, when there was least danger of its being heard. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth soon saw that she was herself closely watched by Miss Bingley,
and that she could not speak a word, especially to Miss Darcy, without
calling her attention. This observation would not have prevented her
from trying to talk to the latter, had they not been seated at an
inconvenient distance; but she was not sorry to be spared the necessity
of saying much: her own thoughts were employing her. She expected every
moment that some of the gentlemen would enter the room: she wished, she
feared, that the master of the house might be amongst them; and whether
she wished or feared it most, she could scarcely determine. After
sitting in this manner a quarter of an hour, without hearing Miss
Bingley’s voice, Elizabeth was roused by receiving from her a cold
inquiry after the health of her family. She answered with equal
indifference and brevity, and the other said no more. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The next variation which their visit afforded was produced by the
entrance of servants with cold meat, cake, and a variety of all the
finest fruits in season; but this did not take place till after many a
significant look and smile from Mrs. Annesley to Miss Darcy had been
given, to remind her of her post. There was now employment for the whole
party; for though they could not all talk, they could all eat; and the
beautiful pyramids of grapes, nectarines, and peaches, soon collected
them round the table. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> While thus engaged, Elizabeth had a fair opportunity of deciding whether
she most feared or wished for the appearance of Mr. Darcy, by the
feelings which prevailed on his entering the room; and then, though but
a moment before she had believed her wishes to predominate, she began to
regret that he came. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He had been some time with Mr. Gardiner, who, with two or three other
gentlemen from the house, was engaged by the river; and had left him
only on learning that the ladies of the family intended a visit to
Georgiana that morning. No sooner did he appear, than Elizabeth wisely
resolved to be perfectly easy and unembarrassed;--a resolution the more
necessary to be made, but perhaps not the more easily kept, because she
saw that the suspicions of the whole party were awakened against them,
and that there was scarcely an eye which did not watch his behaviour
when he first came into the room. In no countenance was attentive
curiosity so strongly marked as in Miss Bingley’s, in spite of the
smiles which overspread her face whenever she spoke to one of its
objects; for jealousy had not yet made her desperate, and her attentions
to Mr. Darcy were by no means over. Miss Darcy, on her brother’s
entrance, exerted herself much more to talk; and Elizabeth saw that he
was anxious for his sister and herself to get acquainted, and forwarded,
as much as possible, every attempt at conversation on either side. Miss
Bingley saw all this likewise; and, in the imprudence of anger, took the
first opportunity of saying, with sneering civility,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In Darcy’s presence she dared not mention Wickham’s name: but Elizabeth
instantly comprehended that he was uppermost in her thoughts; and the
various recollections connected with him gave her a moment’s distress;
but, exerting herself vigorously to repel the ill-natured attack, she
presently answered the question in a tolerably disengaged tone. While
she spoke, an involuntary glance showed her Darcy with a heightened
complexion, earnestly looking at her, and his sister overcome with
confusion, and unable to lift up her eyes. Had Miss Bingley known what
pain she was then giving her beloved friend, she undoubtedly would have
refrained from the hint; but she had merely intended to discompose
Elizabeth, by bringing forward the idea of a man to whom she believed
her partial, to make her betray a sensibility which might injure her in
Darcy’s opinion, and, perhaps, to remind the latter of all the follies
and absurdities by which some part of her family were connected with
that corps. Not a syllable had ever reached her of Miss Darcy’s
meditated elopement. To no creature had it been revealed, where secrecy
was possible, except to Elizabeth; and from all Bingley’s connections
her brother was particularly anxious to conceal it, from that very wish
which Elizabeth had long ago attributed to him, of their becoming
hereafter her own. He had certainly formed such a plan; and without
meaning that it should affect his endeavour to separate him from Miss
Bennet, it is probable that it might add something to his lively concern
for the welfare of his friend. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth’s collected behaviour, however, soon quieted his emotion; and
as Miss Bingley, vexed and disappointed, dared not approach nearer to
Wickham, Georgiana also recovered in time, though not enough to be able
to speak any more. Her brother, whose eye she feared to meet, scarcely
recollected her interest in the affair; and the very circumstance which
had been designed to turn his thoughts from Elizabeth, seemed to have
fixed them on her more and more cheerfully. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Their visit did not continue long after the question and answer above
mentioned; and while Mr. Darcy was attending them to their carriage,
Miss Bingley was venting her feelings in criticisms on Elizabeth’s
person, behaviour, and dress. But Georgiana would not join her. Her
brother’s recommendation was enough to insure her favour: his judgment
could not err; and he had spoken in such terms of Elizabeth, as to leave
Georgiana without the power of finding her otherwise than lovely and
amiable. When Darcy returned to the saloon, Miss Bingley could not help
repeating to him some part of what she had been saying to his sister. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “How very ill Eliza Bennet looks this morning, Mr. Darcy,” she cried: “I
never in my life saw anyone so much altered as she is since the winter.
She is grown so brown and coarse! Louisa and I were agreeing that we
should not have known her again.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> However little Mr. Darcy might have liked such an address, he contented
himself with coolly replying, that he perceived no other alteration than
her being rather tanned,--no miraculous consequence of travelling in the
summer. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “For my own part,” she rejoined, “I must confess that I never could see
any beauty in her. Her face is too thin; her complexion has no
brilliancy; and her features are not at all handsome. Her nose wants
character; there is nothing marked in its lines. Her teeth are
tolerable, but not out of the common way; and as for her eyes, which
have sometimes been called so fine, I never could perceive anything
extraordinary in them. They have a sharp, shrewish look, which I do not
like at all; and in her air altogether, there is a self-sufficiency
without fashion, which is intolerable.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Persuaded as Miss Bingley was that Darcy admired Elizabeth, this was not
the best method of recommending herself; but angry people are not always
wise; and in seeing him at last look somewhat nettled, she had all the
success she expected. He was resolutely silent, however; and, from a
determination of making him speak, she continued,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I remember, when we first knew her in Hertfordshire, how amazed we all
were to find that she was a reputed beauty; and I particularly recollect
your saying one night, after they had been dining at Netherfield, ‘_She_
a beauty! I should as soon call her mother a wit.’ But afterwards she
seemed to improve on you, and I believe you thought her rather pretty at
one time.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes,” replied Darcy, who could contain himself no longer, “but _that_
was only when I first knew her; for it is many months since I have
considered her as one of the handsomest women of my acquaintance.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He then went away, and Miss Bingley was left to all the satisfaction of
having forced him to say what gave no one any pain but herself. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Gardiner and Elizabeth talked of all that had occurred during their
visit, as they returned, except what had particularly interested them
both. The looks and behaviour of everybody they had seen were discussed,
except of the person who had mostly engaged their attention. They talked
of his sister, his friends, his house, his fruit, of everything but
himself; yet Elizabeth was longing to know what Mrs. Gardiner thought of
him, and Mrs. Gardiner would have been highly gratified by her niece’s
beginning the subject. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth had been a good deal disappointed in not finding a letter from
Jane on their first arrival at Lambton; and this disappointment had been
renewed on each of the mornings that had now been spent there; but on
the third her repining was over, and her sister justified, by the
receipt of two letters from her at once, on one of which was marked that
it had been mis-sent elsewhere. Elizabeth was not surprised at it, as
Jane had written the direction remarkably ill. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> They had just been preparing to walk as the letters came in; and her
uncle and aunt, leaving her to enjoy them in quiet, set off by
themselves. The one mis-sent must be first attended to; it had been
written five days ago. The beginning contained an account of all their
little parties and engagements, with such news as the country afforded;
but the latter half, which was dated a day later, and written in evident
agitation, gave more important intelligence. It was to this effect:-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Since writing the above, dearest Lizzy, something has occurred of a
most unexpected and serious nature; but I am afraid of alarming you--be
assured that we are all well. What I have to say relates to poor Lydia.
An express came at twelve last night, just as we were all gone to bed,
from Colonel Forster, to inform us that she was gone off to Scotland
with one of his officers; to own the truth, with Wickham! Imagine our
surprise. To Kitty, however, it does not seem so wholly unexpected. I am
very, very sorry. So imprudent a match on both sides! But I am willing
to hope the best, and that his character has been misunderstood.
Thoughtless and indiscreet I can easily believe him, but this step (and
let us rejoice over it) marks nothing bad at heart. His choice is
disinterested at least, for he must know my father can give her nothing.
Our poor mother is sadly grieved. My father bears it better. How
thankful am I, that we never let them know what has been said against
him; we must forget it ourselves. They were off Saturday night about
twelve, as is conjectured, but were not missed till yesterday morning at
eight. The express was sent off directly. My dear Lizzy, they must have
passed within ten miles of us. Colonel Forster gives us reason to expect
him here soon. Lydia left a few lines for his wife, informing her of
their intention. I must conclude, for I cannot be long from my poor
mother. I am afraid you will not be able to make it out, but I hardly
know what I have written.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Without allowing herself time for consideration, and scarcely knowing
what she felt, Elizabeth, on finishing this letter, instantly seized the
other, and opening it with the utmost impatience, read as follows: it
had been written a day later than the conclusion of the first. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “By this time, my dearest sister, you have received my hurried letter; I
wish this may be more intelligible, but though not confined for time, my
head is so bewildered that I cannot answer for being coherent. Dearest
Lizzy, I hardly know what I would write, but I have bad news for you,
and it cannot be delayed. Imprudent as a marriage between Mr. Wickham
and our poor Lydia would be, we are now anxious to be assured it has
taken place, for there is but too much reason to fear they are not gone
to Scotland. Colonel Forster came yesterday, having left Brighton the
day before, not many hours after the express. Though Lydia’s short
letter to Mrs. F. gave them to understand that they were going to Gretna
Green, something was dropped by Denny expressing his belief that W.
never intended to go there, or to marry Lydia at all, which was repeated
to Colonel F., who, instantly taking the alarm, set off from B.,
intending to trace their route. He did trace them easily to Clapham, but
no farther; for on entering that place, they removed into a
hackney-coach, and dismissed the chaise that brought them from Epsom.
All that is known after this is, that they were seen to continue the
London road. I know not what to think. After making every possible
inquiry on that side of London, Colonel F. came on into Hertfordshire,
anxiously renewing them at all the turnpikes, and at the inns in Barnet
and Hatfield, but without any success,--no such people had been seen to
pass through. With the kindest concern he came on to Longbourn, and
broke his apprehensions to us in a manner most creditable to his heart.
I am sincerely grieved for him and Mrs. F.; but no one can throw any
blame on them. Our distress, my dear Lizzy, is very great. My father and
mother believe the worst, but I cannot think so ill of him. Many
circumstances might make it more eligible for them to be married
privately in town than to pursue their first plan; and even if _he_
could form such a design against a young woman of Lydia’s connections,
which is not likely, can I suppose her so lost to everything?
Impossible! I grieve to find, however, that Colonel F. is not disposed
to depend upon their marriage: he shook his head when I expressed my
hopes, and said he feared W. was not a man to be trusted. My poor mother
is really ill, and keeps her room. Could she exert herself, it would be
better, but this is not to be expected; and as to my father, I never in
my life saw him so affected. Poor Kitty has anger for having concealed
their attachment; but as it was a matter of confidence, one cannot
wonder. I am truly glad, dearest Lizzy, that you have been spared
something of these distressing scenes; but now, as the first shock is
over, shall I own that I long for your return? I am not so selfish,
however, as to press for it, if inconvenient. Adieu! I take up my pen
again to do, what I have just told you I would not; but circumstances
are such, that I cannot help earnestly begging you all to come here as
soon as possible. I know my dear uncle and aunt so well, that I am not
afraid of requesting it, though I have still something more to ask of
the former. My father is going to London with Colonel Forster instantly,
to try to discover her. What he means to do, I am sure I know not; but
his excessive distress will not allow him to pursue any measure in the
best and safest way, and Colonel Forster is obliged to be at Brighton
again to-morrow evening. In such an exigence my uncle’s advice and
assistance would be everything in the world; he will immediately
comprehend what I must feel, and I rely upon his goodness.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh! where, where is my uncle?” cried Elizabeth, darting from her seat
as she finished the letter, in eagerness to follow him, without losing a
moment of the time so precious; but as she reached the door, it was
opened by a servant, and Mr. Darcy appeared. Her pale face and
impetuous manner made him start, and before he could recover himself
enough to speak, she, in whose mind every idea was superseded by Lydia’s
situation, hastily exclaimed, “I beg your pardon, but I must leave you.
I must find Mr. Gardiner this moment on business that cannot be delayed;
I have not an instant to lose.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Good God! what is the matter?” cried he, with more feeling than
politeness; then recollecting himself, “I will not detain you a minute;
but let me, or let the servant, go after Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner. You are
not well enough; you cannot go yourself.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth hesitated; but her knees trembled under her, and she felt how
little would be gained by her attempting to pursue them. Calling back
the servant, therefore, she commissioned him, though in so breathless an
accent as made her almost unintelligible, to fetch his master and
mistress home instantly. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> On his quitting the room, she sat down, unable to support herself, and
looking so miserably ill, that it was impossible for Darcy to leave her,
or to refrain from saying, in a tone of gentleness and commiseration,
“Let me call your maid. Is there nothing you could take to give you
present relief? A glass of wine; shall I get you one? You are very ill.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No, I thank you,” she replied, endeavouring to recover herself. “There
is nothing the matter with me. I am quite well, I am only distressed by
some dreadful news which I have just received from Longbourn.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She burst into tears as she alluded to it, and for a few minutes could
not speak another word. Darcy, in wretched suspense, could only say
something indistinctly of his </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> concern, and observe her in compassionate silence. At length she spoke
again. “I have just had a letter from Jane, with such dreadful news. It
cannot be concealed from anyone. My youngest sister has left all her
friends--has eloped; has thrown herself into the power of--of Mr.
Wickham. They are gone off together from Brighton. _You_ know him too
well to doubt the rest. She has no money, no connections, nothing that
can tempt him to--she is lost for ever.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “When I consider,” she added, in a yet more agitated voice, “that _I_
might have prevented it! _I_ who knew what he was. Had I but explained
some part of it only--some part of what I learnt, to my own family! Had
his character been known, this could not have happened. But it is all,
all too late now.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, yes! They left Brighton together on Sunday night, and were traced
almost to London, but not beyond: they are certainly not gone to
Scotland.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My father has gone to London, and Jane has written to beg my uncle’s
immediate assistance, and we shall be off, I hope, in half an hour. But
nothing can be done; I know very well that nothing can be done. How is
such a man to be worked on? How are they even to be discovered? I have
not the smallest hope. It is every way horrible!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “When _my_ eyes were opened to his real character, oh! had I known what
I ought, what I dared to do! But I knew not--I was afraid of doing too
much. Wretched, wretched mistake!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Darcy made no answer. He seemed scarcely to hear her, and was walking up
and down the room in earnest meditation; his brow contracted, his air
gloomy. Elizabeth soon observed, and instantly understood it. Her power
was sinking; everything _must_ sink under such a proof of family
weakness, such an assurance of the deepest disgrace. She could neither
wonder nor condemn; but the belief of his self-conquest brought nothing
consolatory to her bosom, afforded no palliation of her distress. It
was, on the contrary, exactly calculated to make her understand her own
wishes; and never had she so honestly felt that she could have loved
him, as now, when all love must be vain. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But self, though it would intrude, could not engross her. Lydia--the
humiliation, the misery she was bringing on them all--soon swallowed up
every private care; and covering her face with her handkerchief,
Elizabeth was soon lost to everything else; and, after a pause of
several minutes, was only recalled to a sense of her situation by the
voice of her companion, who, in a manner which, though it spoke
compassion, spoke likewise restraint, said,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am afraid you have been long desiring my absence, nor have I anything
to plead in excuse of my stay, but real, though unavailing concern.
Would to Heaven that anything could be either said or done on my part,
that might offer consolation to such distress! But I will not torment
you with vain wishes, which may seem purposely to ask for your thanks.
This unfortunate affair will, I fear, prevent my sister’s having the
pleasure of seeing you at Pemberley to-day.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, yes! Be so kind as to apologize for us to Miss Darcy. Say that
urgent business calls us home immediately. Conceal the unhappy truth as
long as it is possible. I know it cannot be long.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He readily assured her of his secrecy, again expressed his sorrow for
her distress, wished it a happier conclusion than there was at present
reason to hope, and, leaving his compliments for her relations, with
only one serious parting look, went away. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As he quitted the room, Elizabeth felt how improbable it was that they
should ever see each other again on such terms of cordiality as had
marked their several meetings in Derbyshire; and as she threw a
retrospective glance over the whole of their acquaintance, so full of
contradictions and varieties, sighed at the perverseness of those
feelings which would now have promoted its continuance, and would
formerly have rejoiced in its termination. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> If gratitude and esteem are good foundations of affection, Elizabeth’s
change of sentiment will be neither improbable nor faulty. But if
otherwise, if the regard springing from such sources is unreasonable or
unnatural, in comparison of what is so often described as arising on a
first interview with its object, and even before two words have been
exchanged, nothing can be said in her defence, except that she had given
somewhat of a trial to the latter method, in her partiality for Wickham,
and that its ill success might, perhaps, authorize her to seek the other
less interesting mode of attachment. Be that as it may, she saw him go
with regret; and in this early example of what Lydia’s infamy must
produce, found additional anguish as she reflected on that wretched
business. Never since reading Jane’s second letter had she entertained a
hope of Wickham’s meaning to marry her. No one but Jane, she thought,
could flatter herself with such an expectation. Surprise was the least
of all her feelings on this development. While the contents of the first
letter remained on her mind, she was all surprise, all astonishment,
that Wickham should marry a girl whom it was impossible he could marry
for money; and how Lydia could ever have attached him had appeared
incomprehensible. But now it was all too natural. For such an attachment
as this, she might have sufficient charms; and though she did not
suppose Lydia to be deliberately engaging in an elopement, without the
intention of marriage, she had no difficulty in believing that neither
her virtue nor her understanding would preserve her from falling an easy
prey. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She had never perceived, while the regiment was in Hertfordshire, that
Lydia had any partiality for him; but she was convinced that Lydia had
wanted only encouragement to attach herself to anybody. Sometimes one
officer, sometimes another, had been her favourite, as their attentions
raised them in her opinion. Her affections had been continually
fluctuating, but never without an object. The mischief of neglect and
mistaken indulgence towards such a girl--oh! how acutely did she now
feel it! </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She was wild to be at home--to hear, to see, to be upon the spot to
share with Jane in the cares that must now fall wholly upon her, in a
family so deranged; a father absent, a mother incapable of exertion, and
requiring constant attendance; and though almost persuaded that nothing
could be done for Lydia, her uncle’s interference seemed of the utmost
importance, and till he entered the room the misery of her impatience
was severe. Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner had hurried back in alarm, supposing,
by the servant’s account, that their niece was taken suddenly ill; but
satisfying them instantly on that head, she eagerly communicated the
cause of their summons, reading the two letters aloud, and dwelling on
the postscript of the last with trembling energy. Though Lydia had never
been a favourite with them, Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner could not but be
deeply affected. Not Lydia only, but all were concerned in it; and after
the first exclamations of surprise and horror, Mr. Gardiner readily
promised every assistance in his power. Elizabeth, though expecting no
less, thanked him with tears of gratitude; and all three being actuated
by one spirit, everything relating to their journey was speedily
settled. They were to be off as soon as possible. “But what is to be
done about Pemberley?” cried Mrs. Gardiner. “John told us Mr. Darcy was
here when you sent for us;--was it so?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “What is all settled?” repeated the other, as she ran into her room to
prepare. “And are they upon such terms as for her to disclose the real
truth? Oh, that I knew how it was!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But wishes were vain; or, at best, could serve only to amuse her in the
hurry and confusion of the following hour. Had Elizabeth been at leisure
to be idle, she would have remained certain that all employment was
impossible to one so wretched as herself; but she had her share of
business as well as her aunt, and amongst the rest there were notes to
be written to all their friends at Lambton, with false excuses for their
sudden departure. An hour, however, saw the whole completed; and Mr.
Gardiner, meanwhile, having settled his account at the inn, nothing
remained to be done but to go; and Elizabeth, after all the misery of
the morning, found herself, in a shorter space of time than she could
have supposed, seated in the carriage, and on the road to Longbourn. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have been thinking it over again, Elizabeth,” said her uncle, as they
drove from the town; “and really, upon serious consideration, I am much
more inclined than I was to judge as your eldest sister does of the
matter. It appears to me so very unlikely that any young man should form
such a design against a girl who is by no means unprotected or
friendless, and who was actually staying in his Colonel’s family, that I
am strongly inclined to hope the best. Could he expect that her friends
would not step forward? Could he expect to be noticed again by the
regiment, after such an affront to Colonel Forster? His temptation is
not adequate to the risk.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Upon my word,” said Mrs. Gardiner, “I begin to be of your uncle’s
opinion. It is really too great a violation of decency, honour, and
interest, for him to be guilty of it. I cannot think so very ill of
Wickham. Can you, yourself, Lizzie, so wholly give him up, as to believe
him capable of it?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Not perhaps of neglecting his own interest. But of every other neglect
I can believe him capable. If, indeed, it should be so! But I dare not
hope it. Why should they not go on to Scotland, if that had been the
case?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, but their removing from the chaise into a hackney coach is such a
presumption! And, besides, no traces of them were to be found on the
Barnet road.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, then,--supposing them to be in London--they may be there, though
for the purpose of concealment, for no more exceptionable purpose. It is
not likely that money should be very abundant on either side; and it
might strike them that they could be more economically, though less
expeditiously, married in London, than in Scotland.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But why all this secrecy? Why any fear of detection? Why must their
marriage be private? Oh, no, no--this is not likely. His most particular
friend, you see by Jane’s account, was persuaded of his never intending
to marry her. Wickham will never marry a woman without some money. He
cannot afford it. And what claims has Lydia, what attractions has she
beyond youth, health, and good humour, that could make him for her sake
forego every chance of benefiting himself by marrying well? As to what
restraint the apprehensions of disgrace in the corps might throw on a
dishonourable elopement with her, I am not able to judge; for I know
nothing of the effects that such a step might produce. But as to your
other objection, I am afraid it will hardly hold good. Lydia has no
brothers to step forward; and he might imagine, from my father’s
behaviour, from his indolence and the little attention he has ever
seemed to give to what was going forward in his family, that _he_ would
do as little and think as little about it, as any father could do, in
such a matter.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But can you think that Lydia is so lost to everything but love of him,
as to consent to live with him on any other terms than marriage?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It does seem, and it is most shocking, indeed,” replied Elizabeth, with
tears in her eyes, “that a sister’s sense of decency and virtue in such
a point should admit of doubt. But, really, I know not what to say.
Perhaps I am not doing her justice. But she is very young: she has never
been taught to think on serious subjects; and for the last half year,
nay, for a twelvemonth, she has been given up to nothing but amusement
and vanity. She has been allowed to dispose of her time in the most idle
and frivolous manner, and to adopt any opinions that came in her way.
Since the ----shire were first quartered in Meryton, nothing but love,
flirtation, and officers, have been in her head. She has been doing
everything in her power, by thinking and talking on the subject, to give
greater--what shall I call it?--susceptibility to her feelings; which
are naturally lively enough. And we all know that Wickham has every
charm of person and address that can captivate a woman.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But you see that Jane,” said her aunt, “does not think so ill of
Wickham, as to believe him capable of the attempt.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Of whom does Jane ever think ill? And who is there, whatever might be
their former conduct, that she would believe capable of such an attempt,
till it were proved against them? But Jane knows, as well as I do, what
Wickham really is. We both know that he has been profligate in every
sense of the word; that he has neither integrity nor honour; that he is
as false and deceitful as he is insinuating.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And do you really know all this?” cried Mrs. Gardiner, whose curiosity
as to the mode of her intelligence was all alive. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I do, indeed,” replied Elizabeth, colouring. “I told you the other day
of his infamous behaviour to Mr. Darcy; and you, yourself, when last at
Longbourn, heard in what manner he spoke of the man who had behaved with
such forbearance and liberality towards him. And there are other
circumstances which I am not at liberty--which it is not worth while to
relate; but his lies about the whole Pemberley family are endless. From
what he said of Miss Darcy, I was thoroughly prepared to see a proud,
reserved, disagreeable girl. Yet he knew to the contrary himself. He
must know that she was as amiable and unpretending as we have found
her.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “But does Lydia know nothing of this? can she be ignorant of what you
and Jane seem so well to understand?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, yes!--that, that is the worst of all. Till I was in Kent, and saw
so much both of Mr. Darcy and his relation Colonel Fitzwilliam, I was
ignorant of the truth myself. And when I returned home the ----shire
was to leave Meryton in a week or fortnight’s time. As that was the
case, neither Jane, to whom I related the whole, nor I, thought it
necessary to make our knowledge public; for of what use could it
apparently be to anyone, that the good opinion, which all the
neighbourhood had of him, should then be overthrown? And even when it
was settled that Lydia should go with Mrs. Forster, the necessity of
opening her eyes to his character never occurred to me. That _she_ could
be in any danger from the deception never entered my head. That such a
consequence as _this_ should ensue, you may easily believe was far
enough from my thoughts.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Not the slightest. I can remember no symptom of affection on either
side; and had anything of the kind been perceptible, you must be aware
that ours is not a family on which it could be thrown away. When first
he entered the corps, she was ready enough to admire him; but so we all
were. Every girl in or near Meryton was out of her senses about him for
the first two months: but he never distinguished _her_ by any particular
attention; and, consequently, after a moderate period of extravagant and
wild admiration, her fancy for him gave way, and others of the regiment,
who treated her with more distinction, again became her favourites.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It may be easily believed, that however little of novelty could be added
to their fears, hopes, and conjectures, on this interesting subject by
its repeated discussion, no other could detain them from it long, during
the whole of the journey. From Elizabeth’s thoughts it was never absent.
Fixed there by the keenest of all anguish, self-reproach, she could
find no interval of ease or forgetfulness. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> They travelled as expeditiously as possible; and sleeping one night on
the road, reached Longbourn by dinnertime the next day. It was a comfort
to Elizabeth to consider that Jane could not have been wearied by long
expectations. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The little Gardiners, attracted by the sight of a chaise, were standing
on the steps of the house, as they entered the paddock; and when the
carriage drove up to the door, the joyful surprise that lighted up their
faces and displayed itself over their whole bodies, in a variety of
capers and frisks, was the first pleasing earnest of their welcome. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth jumped out; and after giving each of them a hasty kiss,
hurried into the vestibule, where Jane, who came running downstairs from
her mother’s apartment, immediately met her. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth, as she affectionately embraced her, whilst tears filled the
eyes of both, lost not a moment in asking whether anything had been
heard of the fugitives. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “We have heard only once. He wrote me a few lines on Wednesday, to say
that he had arrived in safety, and to give me his directions, which I
particularly begged him to do. He merely added, that he should not write
again, till he had something of importance to mention.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My mother is tolerably well, I trust; though her spirits are greatly
shaken. She is upstairs, and will have great satisfaction in seeing you
all. She does not yet leave her dressing-room. Mary and Kitty, thank
Heaven! are quite well.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Her sister, however, assured her of her being perfectly well; and their
conversation, which had been passing while Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner were
engaged with their children, was now put an end to by the approach of
the whole party. Jane ran to her uncle and aunt, and welcomed and
thanked them both, with alternate smiles and tears. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When they were all in the drawing-room, the questions which Elizabeth
had already asked were of course repeated by the others, and they soon
found that Jane had no intelligence to give. The sanguine hope of good,
however, which the benevolence of her heart suggested, had not yet
deserted her; she still expected that it would all end well, and that
every morning would bring some letter, either from Lydia or her father,
to explain their proceedings, and, perhaps, announce the marriage. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Bennet, to whose apartment they all repaired, after a few minutes’
conversation together, received them exactly as might be expected; with
tears and lamentations of regret, invectives against the villainous
conduct of Wickham, and complaints of her own sufferings and ill-usage;
blaming everybody but the person to whose ill-judging indulgence the
errors of her daughter must be principally owing. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If I had been able,” said she, “to carry my point in going to Brighton
with all my family, _this_ would not have happened: but poor dear Lydia
had nobody to take care of her. Why did the Forsters ever let her go out
of their sight? I am sure there was some great neglect or other on their
side, for she is not the kind of girl to do such a thing, if she had
been well looked after. I always thought they were very unfit to have
the charge of her; but I was over-ruled, as I always am. Poor, dear
child! And now here’s Mr. Bennet gone away, and I know he will fight
Wickham, wherever he meets him, and then he will be killed, and what is
to become of us all? The Collinses will turn us out, before he is cold
in his grave; and if you are not kind to us, brother, I do not know what
we shall do.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> They all exclaimed against such terrific ideas; and Mr. Gardiner, after
general assurances of his affection for her and all her family, told her
that he meant to be in London the very next day, and would assist Mr.
Bennet in every endeavour for recovering Lydia. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Do not give way to useless alarm,” added he: “though it is right to be
prepared for the worst, there is no occasion to look on it as certain.
It is not quite a week since they left Brighton. In a few days more, we
may gain some news of them; and till we know that they are not married,
and have no design of marrying, do not let us give the matter over as
lost. As soon as I get to town, I shall go to my brother, and make him
come home with me to Gracechurch Street, and then we may consult
together as to what is to be done.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, my dear brother,” replied Mrs. Bennet, “that is exactly what I
could most wish for. And now do, when you get to town, find them out,
wherever they may be; and if they are not married already, _make_ them
marry. And as for wedding clothes, do not let them wait for that, but
tell Lydia she shall have as much money as she chooses to buy them,
after they are married. And, above all things, keep Mr. Bennet from
fighting. Tell him what a dreadful state I am in--that I am frightened
out of my wits; and have such tremblings, such flutterings all over me,
such spasms in my side, and pains in my head, and such beatings at my
heart, that I can get no rest by night nor by day. And tell my dear
Lydia not to give any directions about her clothes till she has seen me,
for she does not know which are the best warehouses. Oh, brother, how
kind you are! I know you will contrive it all.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But Mr. Gardiner, though he assured her again of his earnest endeavours
in the cause, could not avoid recommending moderation to her, as well in
her hopes as her fears; and after talking with her in this manner till
dinner was on table, they left her to vent all her feelings on the
housekeeper, who attended in the absence of her daughters. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Though her brother and sister were persuaded that there was no real
occasion for such a seclusion from the family, they did not attempt to
oppose it; for they knew that she had not prudence enough to hold her
tongue before the servants, while they waited at table, and judged it
better that _one_ only of the household, and the one whom they could
most trust, should comprehend all her fears and solicitude on the
subject. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In the dining-room they were soon joined by Mary and Kitty, who had been
too busily engaged in their separate apartments to make their appearance
before. One came from her books, and the other from her toilette. The
faces of both, however, were tolerably calm; and no change was visible
in either, except that the loss of her favourite sister, or the anger
which she had herself incurred in the business, had given something more
of fretfulness than usual to the accents of Kitty. As for Mary, she was
mistress enough of herself to whisper to Elizabeth, with a countenance
of grave reflection, soon after they were seated at table,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This is a most unfortunate affair, and will probably be much talked of.
But we must stem the tide of malice, and pour into the wounded bosoms of
each other the balm of sisterly consolation.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Then perceiving in Elizabeth no inclination of replying, she added,
“Unhappy as the event must be for Lydia, we may draw from it this useful
lesson:--that loss of virtue in a female is irretrievable, that one
false step involves her in endless ruin, that her reputation is no less
brittle than it is beautiful, and that she cannot be too much guarded in
her behaviour towards the undeserving of the other sex.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth lifted up her eyes in amazement, but was too much oppressed to
make any reply. Mary, however, continued to console herself with such
kind of moral extractions from the evil before them. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In the afternoon, the two elder Miss Bennets were able to be for half an
hour by themselves; and Elizabeth instantly availed herself of the
opportunity of making any inquiries which Jane was equally eager to
satisfy. After joining in general lamentations over the dreadful sequel
of this event, which Elizabeth considered as all but certain, and Miss
Bennet could not assert to be wholly impossible, the former continued
the subject by saying, “But tell me all and everything about it which I
have not already heard. Give me further particulars. What did Colonel
Forster say? Had they no apprehension of anything before the elopement
took place? They must have seen them together for ever.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Colonel Forster did own that he had often suspected some partiality,
especially on Lydia’s side, but nothing to give him any alarm. I am so
grieved for him. His behaviour was attentive and kind to the utmost. He
_was_ coming to us, in order to assure us of his concern, before he had
any idea of their not being gone to Scotland: when that apprehension
first got abroad, it hastened his journey.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And was Denny convinced that Wickham would not marry? Did he know of
their intending to go off? Had Colonel Forster seen Denny himself?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes; but when questioned by _him_, Denny denied knowing anything of
their plan, and would not give his real opinion about it. He did not
repeat his persuasion of their not marrying, and from _that_ I am
inclined to hope he might have been misunderstood before.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “How was it possible that such an idea should enter our brains? I felt a
little uneasy--a little fearful of my sister’s happiness with him in
marriage, because I knew that his conduct had not been always quite
right. My father and mother knew nothing of that; they only felt how
imprudent a match it must be. Kitty then owned, with a very natural
triumph on knowing more than the rest of us, that in Lydia’s last letter
she had prepared her for such a step. She had known, it seems, of their
being in love with each other many weeks.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I must confess that he did not speak so well of Wickham as he formerly
did. He believed him to be imprudent and extravagant; and since this sad
affair has taken place, it is said that he left Meryton greatly in debt:
but I hope this may be false.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You will laugh when you know where I am gone, and I cannot help
     laughing myself at your surprise to-morrow morning, as soon as I am
     missed. I am going to Gretna Green, and if you cannot guess with
     who, I shall think you a simpleton, for there is but one man in the
     world I love, and he is an angel. I should never be happy without
     him, so think it no harm to be off. You need not send them word at
     Longbourn of my going, if you do not like it, for it will make the
     surprise the greater when I write to them, and sign my name Lydia
     Wickham. What a good joke it will be! I can hardly write for
     laughing. Pray make my excuses to Pratt for not keeping my
     engagement, and dancing with him to-night. Tell him I hope he will
     excuse me when he knows all, and tell him I will dance with him at
     the next ball we meet with great pleasure. I shall send for my
     clothes when I get to Longbourn; but I wish you would tell Sally to
     mend a great slit in my worked muslin gown before they are packed
     up. Good-bye. Give my love to Colonel Forster. I hope you will
     drink to our good journey. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, thoughtless, thoughtless Lydia!” cried Elizabeth when she had
finished it. “What a letter is this, to be written at such a moment! But
at least it shows that _she_ was serious in the object of her journey.
Whatever he might afterwards persuade her to, it was not on her side a
_scheme_ of infamy. My poor father! how he must have felt it!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I never saw anyone so shocked. He could not speak a word for full ten
minutes. My mother was taken ill immediately, and the whole house in
such confusion!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, Jane,” cried Elizabeth, “was there a servant belonging to it who
did not know the whole story before the end of the day?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I do not know: I hope there was. But to be guarded at such a time is
very difficult. My mother was in hysterics; and though I endeavoured to
give her every assistance in my power, I am afraid I did not do so much
as I might have done. But the horror of what might possibly happen
almost took from me my faculties.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Your attendance upon her has been too much for you. You do not look
well. Oh that I had been with you! you have had every care and anxiety
upon yourself alone.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Mary and Kitty have been very kind, and would have shared in every
fatigue, I am sure, but I did not think it right for either of them.
Kitty is slight and delicate, and Mary studies so much that her hours of
repose should not be broken in on. My aunt Philips came to Longbourn on
Tuesday, after my father went away; and was so good as to stay till
Thursday with me. She was of great use and comfort to us all, and Lady
Lucas has been very kind: she walked here on Wednesday morning to
condole with us, and offered her services, or any of her daughters, if
they could be of use to us.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “She had better have stayed at home,” cried Elizabeth: “perhaps she
_meant_ well, but, under such a misfortune as this, one cannot see too
little of one’s neighbours. Assistance is impossible; condolence,
insufferable. Let them triumph over us at a distance, and be satisfied.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She then proceeded to inquire into the measures which her father had
intended to pursue, while in town, for the recovery of his daughter. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He meant, I believe,” replied Jane, “to go to Epsom, the place where
they last changed horses, see the postilions, and try if anything could
be made out from them. His principal object must be to discover the
number of the hackney coach which took them from Clapham. It had come
with a fare from London; and as he thought the circumstance of a
gentleman and lady’s removing from one carriage into another might be
remarked, he meant to make inquiries at Clapham. If he could anyhow
discover at what house the coachman had before set down his fare, he
determined to make inquiries there, and hoped it might not be impossible
to find out the stand and number of the coach. I do not know of any
other designs that he had formed; but he was in such a hurry to be gone,
and his spirits so greatly discomposed, that I had difficulty in finding
out even so much as this.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The whole party were in hopes of a letter from Mr. Bennet the next
morning, but the post came in without bringing a single line from him.
His family knew him to be, on all common occasions, a most negligent and
dilatory correspondent; but at such a time they had hoped for exertion.
They were forced to conclude, that he had no pleasing intelligence to
send; but even of _that_ they would have been glad to be certain. Mr.
Gardiner had waited only for the letters before he set off. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When he was gone, they were certain at least of receiving constant
information of what was going on; and their uncle promised, at parting,
to prevail on Mr. Bennet to return to Longbourn as soon as he could, to
the great consolation of his sister, who considered it as the only
security for her husband’s not being killed in a duel. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Gardiner and the children were to remain in Hertfordshire a few
days longer, as the former thought her presence might be serviceable to
her nieces. She shared in their attendance on Mrs. Bennet, and was a
great comfort to them in their hours of freedom. Their other aunt also
visited them frequently, and always, as she said, with the design of
cheering and heartening them up--though, as she never came without
reporting some fresh instance of Wickham’s extravagance or irregularity,
she seldom went away without leaving them more dispirited than she found
them. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> All Meryton seemed striving to blacken the man who, but three months
before, had been almost an angel of light. He was declared to be in debt
to every tradesman in the place, and his intrigues, all honoured with
the title of seduction, had been extended into every tradesman’s family.
Everybody declared that he was the wickedest young man in the world; and
everybody began to find out that they had always distrusted the
appearance of his goodness. Elizabeth, though she did not credit above
half of what was said, believed enough to make her former assurance of
her sister’s ruin still more certain; and even Jane, who believed still
less of it, became almost hopeless, more especially as the time was now
come, when, if they had gone to Scotland, which she had never before
entirely despaired of, they must in all probability have gained some
news of them. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Gardiner left Longbourn on Sunday; on Tuesday, his wife received a
letter from him: it told them, that on his arrival he had immediately
found out his brother, and persuaded him to come to Gracechurch Street.
That Mr. Bennet had been to Epsom and Clapham, before his arrival, but
without gaining any satisfactory information; and that he was now
determined to inquire at all the principal hotels in town, as Mr. Bennet
thought it possible they might have gone to one of them, on their first
coming to London, before they procured lodgings. Mr. Gardiner himself
did not expect any success from this measure; but as his brother was
eager in it, he meant to assist him in pursuing it. He added, that Mr.
Bennet seemed wholly disinclined at present to leave London, and
promised to write again very soon. There was also a postscript to this
effect:-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have written to Colonel Forster to desire him to find out, if
possible, from some of the young man’s intimates in the regiment,
whether Wickham has any relations or connections who would be likely to
know in what part of the town he has now concealed himself. If there
were anyone that one could apply to, with a probability of gaining such
a clue as that, it might be of essential consequence. At present we have
nothing to guide us. Colonel Forster will, I dare say, do everything in
his power to satisfy us on this head. But, on second thoughts, perhaps
Lizzy could tell us what relations he has now living better than any
other person.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth was at no loss to understand from whence this deference for
her authority proceeded; but it was not in her power to give any
information of so satisfactory a nature as the compliment deserved. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She had never heard of his having had any relations, except a father
and mother, both of whom had been dead many years. It was possible,
however, that some of his companions in the ----shire might be able to
give more information; and though she was not very sanguine in expecting
it, the application was a something to look forward to. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Every day at Longbourn was now a day of anxiety; but the most anxious
part of each was when the post was expected. The arrival of letters was
the first grand object of every morning’s impatience. Through letters,
whatever of good or bad was to be told would be communicated; and every
succeeding day was expected to bring some news of importance. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But before they heard again from Mr. Gardiner, a letter arrived for
their father, from a different quarter, from Mr. Collins; which, as Jane
had received directions to open all that came for him in his absence,
she accordingly read; and Elizabeth, who knew what curiosities his
letters always were, looked over her, and read it likewise. It was as
follows:-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I feel myself called upon, by our relationship, and my situation
     in life, to condole with you on the grievous affliction you are now
     suffering under, of which we were yesterday informed by a letter
     from Hertfordshire. Be assured, my dear sir, that Mrs. Collins and
     myself sincerely sympathize with you, and all your respectable
     family, in your present distress, which must be of the bitterest
     kind, because proceeding from a cause which no time can remove. No
     arguments shall be wanting on my part, that can alleviate so severe
     a misfortune; or that may comfort you, under a circumstance that
     must be, of all others, most afflicting to a parent’s mind. The
     death of your daughter would have been a blessing in comparison of
     this. And it is the more to be lamented, because there is reason to
     suppose, as my dear Charlotte informs me, that this licentiousness
     of behaviour in your </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> daughter has proceeded from a faulty degree of indulgence; though,
     at the same time, for the consolation of yourself and Mrs. Bennet,
     I am inclined to think that her own disposition must be naturally
     bad, or she could not be guilty of such an enormity, at so early an
     age. Howsoever that may be, you are grievously to be pitied; in
     which opinion I am not only joined by Mrs. Collins, but likewise by
     Lady Catherine and her daughter, to whom I have related the affair.
     They agree with me in apprehending that this false step in one
     daughter will be injurious to the fortunes of all the others: for
     who, as Lady Catherine herself condescendingly says, will connect
     themselves with such a family? And this consideration leads me,
     moreover, to reflect, with augmented satisfaction, on a certain
     event of last November; for had it been otherwise, I must have been
     involved in all your sorrow and disgrace. Let me advise you, then,
     my dear sir, to console yourself as much as possible, to throw off
     your unworthy child from your affection for ever, and leave her to
     reap the fruits of her own heinous offence. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Gardiner did not write again, till he had received an answer from
Colonel Forster; and then he had nothing of a pleasant nature to send.
It was not known that Wickham had a single relation with whom he kept up
any connection, and it was certain that he had no near one living. His
former acquaintance had been numerous; but since he had been in the
militia, it did not appear that he was on terms of particular friendship
with any of them. There was no one, therefore, who could be pointed out
as likely to give any news of him. And in the wretched state of his own
finances, there was a very powerful motive for secrecy, in addition to
his fear of discovery by Lydia’s relations; for it had just transpired
that he had left gaming debts behind him to a very considerable amount.
Colonel Forster believed that more than a thousand pounds would be
necessary to clear his expenses at Brighton. He owed a good deal in the
town, but his debts of honour were still more formidable. Mr. Gardiner
did not attempt to conceal these particulars from the Longbourn family;
Jane heard them with horror. “A gamester!” she cried. “This is wholly
unexpected; I had not an idea of it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Gardiner added, in his letter, that they might expect to see their
father at home on the following day, which was Saturday. Rendered
spiritless by the ill success of all their endeavours, he had yielded to
his brother-in-law’s entreaty that he would return to his family and
leave it to him to do whatever occasion might suggest to be advisable
for continuing their pursuit. When Mrs. Bennet was told of this, she did
not express so much satisfaction as her children expected, considering
what her anxiety for his life had been before. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “What! is he coming home, and without poor Lydia?” she cried. “Sure he
will not leave London before he has found them. Who is to fight Wickham,
and make him marry her, if he comes away?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As Mrs. Gardiner began to wish to be at home, it was settled that she
and her children should go to London at the same time that Mr. Bennet
came from it. The coach, therefore, took them the first stage of their
journey, and brought its master back to Longbourn. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Gardiner went away in all the perplexity about Elizabeth and her
Derbyshire friend, that had attended her from that part of the world.
His name had never been voluntarily mentioned before them by her niece;
and the kind of half-expectation which Mrs. Gardiner had formed, of
their being followed by a letter from him, had ended in nothing.
Elizabeth had received none since her return, that could come from
Pemberley. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The present unhappy state of the family rendered any other excuse for
the lowness of her spirits unnecessary; nothing, therefore, could be
fairly conjectured from _that_,--though Elizabeth, who was by this time
tolerably well acquainted with her own feelings, was perfectly aware
that, had she known nothing of Darcy, she could have borne the dread of
Lydia’s infamy somewhat better. It would have spared her, she thought,
one sleepless night out of two. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When Mr. Bennet arrived, he had all the appearance of his usual
philosophic composure. He said as little as he had ever been in the
habit of saying; made no mention of the business that had taken him
away; and it was some time before his daughters had courage to speak of
it. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was not till the afternoon, when he joined them at tea, that
Elizabeth ventured to introduce the subject; and then, on her briefly
expressing her sorrow for what he must have endured, he replied, “Say
nothing of that. Who should suffer but myself? It has been my own doing,
and I ought to feel it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You may well warn me against such an evil. Human nature is so prone to
fall into it! No, Lizzy, let me once in my life feel how much I have
been to blame. I am not afraid of being overpowered by the impression.
It will pass away soon enough.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Then, after a short silence, he continued, “Lizzy, I bear you no
ill-will for being justified in your advice to me last May, which,
considering the event, shows some greatness of mind.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This is a parade,” cried he, “which does one good; it gives such an
elegance to misfortune! Another day I will do the same; I will sit in my
library, in my nightcap and powdering gown, and give as much trouble as
I can,--or perhaps I may defer it till Kitty runs away.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am not going to run away, papa,” said Kitty, fretfully. “If _I_
should ever go to Brighton, I would behave better than Lydia.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “_You_ go to Brighton! I would not trust you so near it as Eastbourne,
for fifty pounds! No, Kitty, I have at least learnt to be cautious, and
you will feel the effects of it. No officer is ever to enter my house
again, nor even to pass through the village. Balls will be absolutely
prohibited, unless you stand up with one of your sisters. And you are
never to stir out of doors, till you can prove that you have spent ten
minutes of every day in a rational manner.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, well,” said he, “do not make yourself unhappy. If you are a good
girl for the next ten years, I will take you to a review at the end of
them.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Two days after Mr. Bennet’s return, as Jane and Elizabeth were walking
together in the shrubbery behind the house, they saw the housekeeper
coming towards them, and concluding that she came to call them to their
mother, went forward to meet her; but instead of the expected summons,
when they approached her, she said to Miss Bennet, “I beg your pardon,
madam, for interrupting you, but I was in hopes you might have got some
good news from town, so I took the liberty of coming to ask.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Dear madam,” cried Mrs. Hill, in great astonishment, “don’t you know
there is an express come for master from Mr. Gardiner? He has been here
this half hour, and master has had a letter.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Away ran the girls, too eager to get in to have time for speech. They
ran through the vestibule into the breakfast-room; from thence to the
library;--their father was in neither; and they were on the point of
seeking him upstairs with their mother, when they were met by the
butler, who said,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Upon this information, they instantly passed through the hall once more,
and ran across the lawn after their father, who was deliberately
pursuing his way towards a small wood on one side of the paddock. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Jane, who was not so light, nor so much in the habit of running as
Elizabeth, soon lagged behind, while her sister, panting for breath,
came up with him, and eagerly cried out,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “What is there of good to be expected?” said he, taking the letter from
his pocket; “but perhaps you would like to read it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “At last I am able to send you some tidings of my niece, and such
     as, upon the whole, I hope will give you satisfaction. Soon after
     you left me on Saturday, I was fortunate enough to find out in what
     part of London they were. The particulars I reserve till we meet.
     It is enough to know they are discovered: I have seen them
     both----” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth read on: “I have seen them both. They are not married,
     nor can I find there was any intention of being so; but if you are
     willing to perform the engagements which I have ventured to make on
     your side, I hope it will not be long before they are. All that is
     required of you is, to assure to your daughter, by settlement, her
     equal share of the five thousand pounds, secured among your
     children after the decease of yourself and my sister; and,
     moreover, to enter into an engagement of allowing her, during your
     life, one hundred pounds per annum. These are conditions which,
     considering everything, I had no hesitation in complying with, as
     far as I thought myself privileged, for you. I shall send this by
     express, that no time may be lost in bringing me your answer. You
     will easily comprehend, from these particulars, that Mr. Wickham’s
     circumstances are not so hopeless as they are generally believed to
     be. The world has been deceived in that respect; and I am happy to
     say, there will be some little money, even when all his debts are
     discharged, to settle on my niece, in addition to her own fortune.
     If, as I conclude will be the case, you send me full powers to act
     in your name throughout the whole of this business, I will
     immediately give directions to Haggerston for preparing a proper
     settlement. There will not be the smallest occasion for your coming
     to town again; therefore stay quietly at Longbourn, and depend on
     my diligence and care. Send back your answer as soon as you can,
     and be careful to write explicitly. We have judged it best that my
     niece should be married from this house, of which I hope you will
     approve. She comes to us to-day. I shall write again as soon as
     anything more is determined on. Yours, etc. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh! my dear father,” she cried, “come back and write immediately.
Consider how important every moment is in such a case.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, yes, they must marry. There is nothing else to be done. But there
are two things that I want very much to know:--one is, how much money
your uncle has laid down to bring it about; and the other, how I am ever
to pay him.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I mean that no man in his proper senses would marry Lydia on so slight
a temptation as one hundred a year during my life, and fifty after I am
gone.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That is very true,” said Elizabeth; “though it had not occurred to me
before. His debts to be discharged, and something still to remain! Oh,
it must be my uncle’s doings! Generous, good man, I am afraid he has
distressed himself. A small sum could not do all this.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No,” said her father. “Wickham’s a fool if he takes her with a farthing
less than ten thousand pounds: I should be sorry to think so ill of him,
in the very beginning of our relationship.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Bennet made no answer; and each of them, deep in thought, continued
silent till they reached the house. Their father then went to the
library to write, and the girls walked into the breakfast-room. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And they are really to be married!” cried Elizabeth, as soon as they
were by themselves. “How strange this is! and for _this_ we are to be
thankful. That they should marry, small as is their chance of happiness,
and wretched as is his character, we are forced to rejoice! Oh, Lydia!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I comfort myself with thinking,” replied Jane, “that he certainly would
not marry Lydia, if he had not a real regard for her. Though our kind
uncle has done something towards clearing him, I cannot believe that ten
thousand pounds, or anything like it, has been advanced. He has children
of his own, and may have more. How could he spare half ten thousand
pounds?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If we are ever able to learn what Wickham’s debts have been,” said
Elizabeth, “and how much is settled on his side on our sister, we shall
exactly know what Mr. Gardiner has done for them, because Wickham has
not sixpence of his own. The kindness of my uncle and aunt can never be
requited. Their taking her home, and affording her their personal
protection and countenance, is such a sacrifice to her advantage as
years of gratitude cannot enough acknowledge. By this time she is
actually with them! If such goodness does not make her miserable now,
she will never deserve to be happy! What a meeting for her, when she
first sees my aunt!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “We must endeavour to forget all that has passed on either side,” said
Jane: “I hope and trust they will yet be happy. His consenting to marry
her is a proof, I will believe, that he is come to a right way of
thinking. Their mutual affection will steady them; and I flatter myself
they will settle so quietly, and live in so rational a manner, as may in
time make their past imprudence forgotten.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Their conduct has been such,” replied Elizabeth, “as neither you, nor
I, nor anybody, can ever forget. It is useless to talk of it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It now occurred to the girls that their mother was in all likelihood
perfectly ignorant of what had happened. They went to the library,
therefore, and asked their father whether he would not wish them to make
it known to her. He was writing, and, without raising his head, coolly
replied,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth took the letter from his writing-table, and they went upstairs
together. Mary and Kitty were both with Mrs. Bennet: one communication
would, therefore, do for all. After a slight preparation for good news,
the letter was read aloud. Mrs. Bennet could hardly contain herself. As
soon as Jane had read Mr. Gardiner’s hope of Lydia’s being soon married,
her joy burst forth, and every following sentence added to its
exuberance. She was now in an irritation as violent from delight as she
had ever been fidgety from alarm and vexation. To know that her daughter
would be married was enough. She was disturbed by no fear for her
felicity, nor humbled by any remembrance of her misconduct. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My dear, dear Lydia!” she cried: “this is delightful indeed! She will
be married! I shall see her again! She will be married at sixteen! My
good, kind brother! I knew how it would be--I knew he would manage
everything. How I long to see her! and to see dear Wickham too! But the
clothes, the wedding clothes! I will write to my sister Gardiner about
them directly. Lizzy, my dear, run down to your father, and ask him how
much he will give her. Stay, stay, I will go myself. Ring the bell,
Kitty, for Hill. I will put on my things in a moment. My dear, dear
Lydia! How merry we shall be together when we meet!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Her eldest daughter endeavoured to give some relief to the violence of
these transports, by leading her thoughts to the obligations which Mr.
Gardiner’s behaviour laid them all under. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “For we must attribute this happy conclusion,” she added, “in a great
measure to his kindness. We are persuaded that he has pledged himself to
assist Mr. Wickham with money.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well,” cried her mother, “it is all very right; who should do it but
her own uncle? If he had not had a family of his own, I and my children
must have had all his money, you know; and it is the first time we have
ever had anything from him except a few presents. Well! I am so happy.
In a short time, I shall have a daughter married. Mrs. Wickham! How well
it sounds! And she was only sixteen last June. My dear Jane, I am in
such a flutter, that I am sure I can’t write; so I will dictate, and you
write for me. We will settle with your father about the money
afterwards; but the things should be ordered immediately.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She was then proceeding to all the particulars of calico, muslin, and
cambric, and would shortly have dictated some very plentiful orders, had
not Jane, though with some difficulty, persuaded her to wait till her
father was at leisure to be consulted. One day’s delay, she observed,
would be of small importance; and her mother was too happy to be quite
so obstinate as usual. Other schemes, too, came into her head. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I will go to Meryton,” said she, “as soon as I am dressed, and tell the
good, good news to my sister Philips. And as I come back, I can call on
Lady Lucas and Mrs. Long. Kitty, run down and order the carriage. An
airing would do me a great deal of good, I am sure. Girls, can I do
anything for you in Meryton? Oh! here comes Hill. My dear Hill, have you
heard the good news? Miss Lydia is going to be married; and you shall
all have a bowl of punch to make merry at her wedding.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Hill began instantly to express her joy. Elizabeth received her
congratulations amongst the rest, and then, sick of this folly, took
refuge in her own room, that she might think with freedom. Poor Lydia’s
situation must, at best, be bad enough; but that it was no worse, she
had need to be thankful. She felt it so; and though, in looking forward,
neither rational happiness, nor worldly prosperity could be justly
expected for her sister, in looking back to what they had feared, only
two hours ago, she felt all the advantages of what they had gained. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Bennet had very often wished, before this period of his life, that,
instead of spending his whole income, he had laid by an annual sum, for
the better provision of his children, and of his wife, if she survived
him. He now wished it more than ever. Had he done his duty in that
respect, Lydia need not have been indebted to her uncle for whatever of
honour or credit could now be purchased for her. The satisfaction of
prevailing on one of the most worthless young men in Great Britain to
be her husband might then have rested in its proper place. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He was seriously concerned that a cause of so little advantage to anyone
should be forwarded at the sole expense of his brother-in-law; and he
was determined, if possible, to find out the extent of his assistance,
and to discharge the obligation as soon as he could. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When first Mr. Bennet had married, economy was held to be perfectly
useless; for, of course, they were to have a son. This son was to join
in cutting off the entail, as soon as he should be of age, and the widow
and younger children would by that means be provided for. Five daughters
successively entered the world, but yet the son was to come; and Mrs.
Bennet, for many years after Lydia’s birth, had been certain that he
would. This event had at last been despaired of, but it was then too
late to be saving. Mrs. Bennet had no turn for economy; and her
husband’s love of independence had alone prevented their exceeding their
income. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Five thousand pounds was settled by marriage articles on Mrs. Bennet and
the children. But in what proportions it should be divided amongst the
latter depended on the will of the parents. This was one point, with
regard to Lydia at least, which was now to be settled, and Mr. Bennet
could have no hesitation in acceding to the proposal before him. In
terms of grateful acknowledgment for the kindness of his brother, though
expressed most concisely, he then delivered on paper his perfect
approbation of all that was done, and his willingness to fulfil the
engagements that had been made for him. He had never before supposed
that, could Wickham be prevailed on to marry his daughter, it would be
done with so little inconvenience to himself as by the present
arrangement. He would scarcely be ten pounds a year the loser, by the
hundred that was to be paid them; for, what with her board and pocket
allowance, and the continual presents in money which passed to her
through her mother’s hands, Lydia’s expenses had been very little within
that sum. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> That it would be done with such trifling exertion on his side, too, was
another very welcome surprise; for his chief wish at present was to have
as little trouble in the business as possible. When the first transports
of rage which had produced his activity in seeking her were over, he
naturally returned to all his former indolence. His letter was soon
despatched; for though dilatory in undertaking business, he was quick in
its execution. He begged to know further particulars of what he was
indebted to his brother; but was too angry with Lydia to send any
message to her. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The good news quickly spread through the house; and with proportionate
speed through the neighbourhood. It was borne in the latter with decent
philosophy. To be sure, it would have been more for the advantage of
conversation, had Miss Lydia Bennet come upon the town; or, as the
happiest alternative, been secluded from the world in some distant
farm-house. But there was much to be talked of, in marrying her; and the
good-natured wishes for her well-doing, which had proceeded before from
all the spiteful old ladies in Meryton, lost but little of their spirit
in this change of circumstances, because with such a husband her misery
was considered certain. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was a fortnight since Mrs. Bennet had been down stairs, but on this
happy day she again took her seat at the head of her table, and in
spirits oppressively high. No sentiment of shame gave a damp to her
triumph. The marriage of a daughter, which had been the first object of
her wishes since Jane was sixteen, was now on the point of
accomplishment, and her thoughts and her words ran wholly on those
attendants of elegant nuptials, fine muslins, new carriages, and
servants. She was busily searching through the neighbourhood for a
proper situation for her daughter; and, without knowing or considering
what their income might be, rejected many as deficient in size and
importance. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Haye Park might do,” said she, “if the Gouldings would quit it, or the
great house at Stoke, if the drawing-room were larger; but Ashworth is
too far off. I could not bear to have her ten miles from me; and as for
Purvis Lodge, the attics are dreadful.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Her husband allowed her to talk on without interruption while the
servants remained. But when they had withdrawn, he said to her, “Mrs.
Bennet, before you take any, or all of these houses, for your son and
daughter, let us come to a right understanding. Into _one_ house in this
neighbourhood they shall never have admittance. I will not encourage the
imprudence of either, by receiving them at Longbourn.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> A long dispute followed this declaration; but Mr. Bennet was firm: it
soon led to another; and Mrs. Bennet found, with amazement and horror,
that her husband would not advance a guinea to buy clothes for his
daughter. He protested that she should receive from him no mark of
affection whatever on the occasion. Mrs. Bennet could hardly comprehend
it. That his anger could be carried to such a point of inconceivable
resentment as to refuse his daughter a privilege, without which her
marriage would scarcely seem valid, exceeded all that she could believe
possible. She was more alive to the disgrace, which her want of new
clothes must reflect on her daughter’s nuptials, than to any sense of
shame at her eloping and living with Wickham a fortnight before they
took place. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth was now most heartily sorry that she had, from the distress of
the moment, been led to make Mr. Darcy acquainted with their fears for
her sister; for since her marriage would so shortly give the proper
termination to the elopement, they might hope to conceal its
unfavourable beginning from all those who were not immediately on the
spot. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She had no fear of its spreading farther, through his means. There were
few people on whose secrecy she would have more confidently depended;
but at the same time there was no one whose knowledge of a sister’s
frailty would have mortified her so much. Not, however, from any fear of
disadvantage from it individually to herself; for at any rate there
seemed a gulf impassable between them. Had Lydia’s marriage been
concluded on the most honourable terms, it was not to be supposed that
Mr. Darcy would connect himself with a family, where to every other
objection would now be added an alliance and relationship of the nearest
kind with the man whom he so justly scorned. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> From such a connection she could not wonder that he should shrink. The
wish of procuring her regard, which she had assured herself of his
feeling in Derbyshire, could not in rational expectation survive such a
blow as this. She was humbled, she was grieved; she repented, though she
hardly knew of what. She became jealous of his esteem, when she could no
longer hope to be benefited by it. She wanted to hear of him, when there
seemed the least chance of gaining intelligence. She was convinced that
she could have been happy with him, when it was no longer likely they
should meet. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> What a triumph for him, as she often thought, could he know that the
proposals which she had proudly spurned only four months ago would now
have been gladly and gratefully received! He was as generous, she
doubted not, as the most generous of his sex. But while he was mortal,
there must be a triumph. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She began now to comprehend that he was exactly the man who, in
disposition and talents, would most suit her. His understanding and
temper, though unlike her own, would have answered all her wishes. It
was an union that must have been to the advantage of both: by her ease
and liveliness, his mind might have been softened, his manners improved;
and from his judgment, information, and knowledge of the world, she must
have received benefit of greater importance. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But no such happy marriage could now teach the admiring multitude what
connubial felicity really was. An union of a different tendency, and
precluding the possibility of the other, was soon to be formed in their
family. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> How Wickham and Lydia were to be supported in tolerable independence she
could not imagine. But how little of permanent happiness could belong to
a couple who were only brought together because their passions were
stronger than their virtue, she could easily conjecture. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Gardiner soon wrote again to his brother. To Mr. Bennet’s
acknowledgments he briefly replied, with assurances of his eagerness to
promote the welfare of any of his family; and concluded with entreaties
that the subject might never be mentioned to him again. The principal
purport of his letter was to inform them, that Mr. Wickham had resolved
on quitting the militia. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It was greatly my wish that he should do so,” he added, “as soon as his
marriage was fixed on. And I think you will agree with me, in
considering a removal from that corps as highly advisable, both on his
account and my niece’s. It is Mr. Wickham’s intention to go into the
Regulars; and, among his former friends, there are still some who are
able and willing to assist him in the army. He has the promise of an
ensigncy in General----’s regiment, now quartered in the north. It is
an advantage to have it so far from this part of the kingdom. He
promises fairly; and I hope among different people, where they may each
have a character to preserve, they will both be more prudent. I have
written to Colonel Forster, to inform him of our present arrangements,
and to request that he will satisfy the various creditors of Mr. Wickham
in and near Brighton with assurances of speedy payment, for which I have
pledged myself. And will you give yourself the trouble of carrying
similar assurances to his creditors in Meryton, of whom I shall subjoin
a list, according to his information? He has given in all his debts; I
hope at least he has not deceived us. Haggerston has our directions, and
all will be completed in a week. They will then join his regiment,
unless they are first invited to Longbourn; and I understand from Mrs.
Gardiner that my niece is very desirous of seeing you all before she
leaves the south. She is well, and begs to be dutifully remembered to
you and her mother.--Yours, etc. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Bennet and his daughters saw all the advantages of Wickham’s
removal from the ----shire, as clearly as Mr. Gardiner could do. But
Mrs. Bennet was not so well pleased with it. Lydia’s being settled in
the north, just when she had expected most pleasure and pride in her
company, for she had by no means given up her plan of their residing in
Hertfordshire, was a severe disappointment; and, besides, it was such a
pity that Lydia should be taken from a regiment where she was acquainted
with everybody, and had so many favourites. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “She is so fond of Mrs. Forster,” said she, “it will be quite shocking
to send her away! And there are several of the young men, too, that she
likes very much. The officers may not be so pleasant in General----’s
regiment.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> His daughter’s request, for such it might be considered, of being
admitted into her family again, before she set off for the north,
received at first an absolute negative. But Jane and Elizabeth, who
agreed in wishing, for the sake of their sister’s feelings and
consequence, that she should be noticed on her marriage by her parents,
urged him so earnestly, yet so rationally and so mildly, to receive her
and her husband at Longbourn, as soon as they were married, that he was
prevailed on to think as they thought, and act as they wished. And their
mother had the satisfaction of knowing, that she should be able to show
her married daughter in the neighbourhood, before she was banished to
the north. When Mr. Bennet wrote again to his brother, therefore, he
sent his permission for them to come; and it was settled, that, as soon
as the ceremony was over, they should proceed to Longbourn. Elizabeth
was surprised, however, that Wickham should consent to such a scheme;
and, had she consulted only her own inclination, any meeting with him
would have been the last object of her wishes. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Their sister’s wedding-day arrived; and Jane and Elizabeth felt for her
probably more than she felt for herself. The carriage was sent to meet
them at----, and they were to return in it by dinnertime. Their arrival
was dreaded by the elder Miss Bennets--and Jane more especially, who
gave Lydia the feelings which would have attended herself, had _she_
been the culprit, and was wretched in the thought of what her sister
must endure. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> They came. The family were assembled in the breakfast-room to receive
them. Smiles decked the face of Mrs. Bennet, as the carriage drove up to
the door; her husband looked impenetrably grave; her daughters, alarmed,
anxious, uneasy. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Lydia’s voice was heard in the vestibule; the door was thrown open, and
she ran into the room. Her mother stepped forwards, embraced her, and
welcomed her with rapture; gave her hand with an affectionate smile to
Wickham, who followed his lady; and wished them both joy, with an
alacrity which showed no doubt of their happiness. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Their reception from Mr. Bennet, to whom they then turned, was not quite
so cordial. His countenance rather gained in austerity; and he scarcely
opened his lips. The easy assurance of the young couple, indeed, was
enough to provoke him. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth was disgusted, and even Miss Bennet was shocked. Lydia was
Lydia still; untamed, unabashed, wild, noisy, and fearless. She turned
from sister to sister, demanding their congratulations; and when at
length they all sat down, looked eagerly round the room, took notice of
some little alteration in it, and observed, with a laugh, that it was a
great while since she had been there. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Wickham was not at all more distressed than herself; but his manners
were always so pleasing, that, had his character and his marriage been
exactly what they ought, his smiles and his easy address, while he
claimed their relationship, would have delighted them all. Elizabeth
had not before believed him quite equal to such assurance; but she sat
down, resolving within herself to draw no limits in future to the
impudence of an impudent man. _She_ blushed, and Jane blushed; but the
cheeks of the two who caused their confusion suffered no variation of
colour. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> There was no want of discourse. The bride and her mother could neither
of them talk fast enough; and Wickham, who happened to sit near
Elizabeth, began inquiring after his acquaintance in that neighbourhood,
with a good-humoured ease, which she felt very unable to equal in her
replies. They seemed each of them to have the happiest memories in the
world. Nothing of the past was recollected with pain; and Lydia led
voluntarily to subjects which her sisters would not have alluded to for
the world. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Only think of its being three months,” she cried, “since I went away:
it seems but a fortnight, I declare; and yet there have been things
enough happened in the time. Good gracious! when I went away, I am sure
I had no more idea of being married till I came back again! though I
thought it would be very good fun if I was.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Her father lifted up his eyes, Jane was distressed, Elizabeth looked
expressively at Lydia; but she, who never heard nor saw anything of
which she chose to be insensible, gaily continued,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, mamma, do the people hereabouts know I am married to-day? I was
afraid they might not; and we overtook William Goulding in his curricle,
so I was determined he should know it, and so I let down the side glass
next to him, and took off my glove and let my hand just rest upon the
window frame, so that he might see the ring, and then I bowed and
smiled like anything.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth could bear it no longer. She got up and ran out of the room;
and returned no more, till she heard them passing through the hall to
the dining-parlour. She then joined them soon enough to see Lydia, with
anxious parade, walk up to her mother’s right hand, and hear her say to
her eldest sister,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was not to be supposed that time would give Lydia that embarrassment
from which she had been so wholly free at first. Her ease and good
spirits increased. She longed to see Mrs. Philips, the Lucases, and all
their other neighbours, and to hear herself called “Mrs. Wickham” by
each of them; and in the meantime she went after dinner to show her ring
and boast of being married to Mrs. Hill and the two housemaids. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, mamma,” said she, when they were all returned to the
breakfast-room, “and what do you think of my husband? Is not he a
charming man? I am sure my sisters must all envy me. I only hope they
may have half my good luck. They must all go to Brighton. That is the
place to get husbands. What a pity it is, mamma, we did not all go!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Very true; and if I had my will we should. But, my dear Lydia, I don’t
at all like your going such a way off. Must it be so?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, Lord! yes; there is nothing in that. I shall like it of all things.
You and papa, and my sisters, must come down and see us. We shall be at
Newcastle all the winter, and I dare say there will be some balls, and I
will take care to get good partners for them all.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And then when you go away, you may leave one or two of my sisters
behind you; and I dare say I shall get husbands for them before the
winter is over.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I thank you for my share of the favour,” said Elizabeth; “but I do not
particularly like your way of getting husbands.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Their visitors were not to remain above ten days with them. Mr. Wickham
had received his commission before he left London, and he was to join
his regiment at the end of a fortnight. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> No one but Mrs. Bennet regretted that their stay would be so short; and
she made the most of the time by visiting about with her daughter, and
having very frequent parties at home. These parties were acceptable to
all; to avoid a family circle was even more desirable to such as did
think than such as did not. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Wickham’s affection for Lydia was just what Elizabeth had expected to
find it; not equal to Lydia’s for him. She had scarcely needed her
present observation to be satisfied, from the reason of things, that
their elopement had been brought on by the strength of her love rather
than by his; and she would have wondered why, without violently caring
for her, he chose to elope with her at all, had she not felt certain
that his flight was rendered necessary by distress of circumstances; and
if that were the case, he was not the young man to resist an opportunity
of having a companion. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Lydia was exceedingly fond of him. He was her dear Wickham on every
occasion; no one was to be put in competition with him. He did
everything best in the world; and she was sure he would kill more birds
on the first of September than anybody else in the country. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Lizzy, I never gave _you_ an account of my wedding, I believe. You were
not by, when I told mamma, and the others, all about it. Are not you
curious to hear how it was managed?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “La! You are so strange! But I must tell you how it went off. We were
married, you know, at St. Clement’s, because Wickham’s lodgings were in
that parish. And it was settled that we should all be there by eleven
o’clock. My uncle and aunt and I were to go together; and the others
were to meet us at the church. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, Monday morning came, and I was in such a fuss! I was so afraid,
you know, that something would happen to put it off, and then I should
have gone quite distracted. And there was my aunt, all the time I was
dressing, preaching and talking away just as if she was reading a
sermon. However, I did not hear above one word in ten, for I was
thinking, you may suppose, of my dear Wickham. I longed to know whether
he would be married in his blue coat. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, and so we breakfasted at ten as usual: I thought it would never
be over; for, by the bye, you are to understand that my uncle and aunt
were horrid unpleasant all the time I was with them. If you’ll believe
me, I did not once put my foot out of doors, though I was there a
fortnight. Not one party, or scheme, or anything! To be sure, London was
rather thin, but, however, the Little Theatre was open. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, and so, just as the carriage came to the door, my uncle was
called away upon business to that horrid man Mr. Stone. And then, you
know, when once they get together, there is no end of it. Well, I was so
frightened I did not know what to do, for my uncle was to give me away;
and if we were beyond the hour we could not be married all day. But,
luckily, he came back again in ten minutes’ time, and then we all set
out. However, I recollected afterwards, that if he _had_ been prevented
going, the wedding need not be put off, for Mr. Darcy might have done as
well.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, yes! he was to come there with Wickham, you know. But, gracious me!
I quite forgot! I ought not to have said a word about it. I promised
them so faithfully! What will Wickham say? It was to be such a secret!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If it was to be a secret,” said Jane, “say not another word on the
subject. You may depend upon my seeking no further.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Thank you,” said Lydia; “for if you did, I should certainly tell you
all, and then Wickham would be so angry.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But to live in ignorance on such a point was impossible; or at least it
was impossible not to try for information. Mr. Darcy had been at her
sister’s wedding. It was exactly a scene, and exactly among people,
where he had apparently least to do, and least temptation to go.
Conjectures as to the meaning of it, rapid and wild, hurried into her
brain; but she was satisfied with none. Those that best pleased her, as
placing his conduct in the noblest light, seemed most improbable. She
could not bear such suspense; and hastily seizing a sheet of paper,
wrote a short letter to her aunt, to request an explanation of what
Lydia had dropped, if it were compatible with the secrecy which had been
intended. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You may readily comprehend,” she added, “what my curiosity must be to
know how a person unconnected with any of us, and, comparatively
speaking, a stranger to our family, should have been amongst you at such
a time. Pray write instantly, and let me understand it--unless it is,
for very cogent reasons, to remain in the secrecy which Lydia seems to
think necessary; and then I must endeavour to be satisfied with
ignorance.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Not that I _shall_, though,” she added to herself, and she finished the
letter; “and, my dear aunt, if you do not tell me in an honourable
manner, I shall certainly be reduced to tricks and stratagems to find it
out.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Jane’s delicate sense of honour would not allow her to speak to
Elizabeth privately of what Lydia had let fall; Elizabeth was glad of
it:--till it appeared whether her inquiries would receive any
satisfaction, she had rather be without a confidante. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth had the satisfaction of receiving an answer to her letter as
soon as she possibly could. She was no sooner in possession of it, than
hurrying into the little copse, where she was least likely to be
interrupted, she sat down on one of the benches, and prepared to be
happy; for the length of the letter convinced her that it did not
contain a denial. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have just received your letter, and shall devote this whole
     morning to answering it, as I foresee that a _little_ writing will
     not comprise what I have to tell you. I must confess myself
     surprised by your application; I did not expect it from _you_.
     Don’t think me angry, however, for I only mean to let you know,
     that I had not imagined such inquiries to be necessary on _your_
     side. If you do not choose to understand me, forgive my
     impertinence. Your uncle is as much surprised as I am; and nothing
     but the belief of your being a party concerned would have allowed
     him to act as he has done. But if you are really innocent and
     ignorant, I must be more explicit. On the very day of my coming
     home from Longbourn, your uncle had a most unexpected visitor. Mr.
     Darcy called, and was shut up with him several hours. It was all
     over before I arrived; so my curiosity was not so dreadfully racked
     as _yours_ seems to have been. He came to tell Mr. Gardiner that he
     had found out where your sister and Mr. Wickham were, and that he
     had seen and talked with them both--Wickham repeatedly, Lydia once.
     From what I can collect, he left Derbyshire only one day after
     ourselves, and came to town with the resolution of hunting for
     them. The motive professed was his conviction of its being owing to
     himself that Wickham’s worthlessness had not been so well known as
     to make it impossible for any young woman of character to love or
     confide in him. He generously imputed the whole to his mistaken
     pride, and confessed that he had before thought it beneath him to
     lay his private actions open to the world. His character was to
     speak for itself. He called it, therefore, his duty to step
     forward, and endeavour to remedy an evil which had been brought on
     by himself. If he _had another_ motive, I am sure it would never
     disgrace him. He had been some days in town before he was able to
     discover them; but he had something to direct his search, which was
     more than _we_ had; and the consciousness of this was another
     reason for his resolving to follow us. There is a lady, it seems, a
     Mrs. Younge, who was some time ago governess to Miss Darcy, and was
     dismissed from her charge on some cause of disapprobation, though
     he did not say what. She then took a large house in Edward Street,
     and has since maintained herself by letting lodgings. This Mrs.
     Younge was, he knew, intimately acquainted with Wickham; and he
     went to her for intelligence of him, as soon as he got to town. But
     it was two or three days before he could get from her what he
     wanted. She would not betray her trust, I suppose, without bribery
     and corruption, for she really did know where her friend was to be
     found. Wickham, indeed, had gone to her on their first arrival in
     London; and had she been able to receive them into her house, they
     would have taken up their abode with her. At length, however, our
     kind friend procured the wished-for direction. They were in ----
     Street. He saw Wickham, and afterwards insisted on seeing Lydia.
     His first object with her, he acknowledged, had been to persuade
     her to quit her present disgraceful situation, and return to her
     friends as soon as they could be prevailed on to receive her,
     offering his assistance as far as it would go. But he found Lydia
     absolutely resolved on remaining where she was. She cared for none
     of her friends; she wanted no help of his; she would not hear of
     leaving Wickham. She was sure they should be married some time or
     other, and it did not much signify when. Since such were her
     feelings, it only remained, he thought, to secure and expedite a
     marriage, which, in his very first conversation with Wickham, he
     easily learnt had never been _his_ design. He confessed himself
     obliged to leave the regiment on account of some debts of honour
     which were very pressing; and scrupled not to lay all the ill
     consequences of Lydia’s flight on her own folly alone. He meant to
     resign his commission immediately; and as to his future situation,
     he could conjecture very little about it. He must go somewhere, but
     he did not know where, and he knew he should have nothing to live
     on. Mr. Darcy asked why he did not marry your sister at once.
     Though Mr. Bennet was not imagined to be very rich, he would have
     been able to do something for him, and his situation must have been
     benefited by marriage. But he found, in reply to this question,
     that Wickham still cherished the hope of more effectually making
     his fortune by marriage, in some other country. Under such
     circumstances, however, he was not likely to be proof against the
     temptation of immediate relief. They met several times, for there
     was much to be discussed. Wickham, of course, wanted more than he
     could get; but at length was reduced to be reasonable. Everything
     being settled between _them_, Mr. Darcy’s next step was to make
     your uncle acquainted with it, and he first called in Gracechurch
     Street the evening before I came home. But Mr. Gardiner could not
     be seen; and Mr. Darcy found, on further inquiry, that your father
     was still with him, but would quit town the next morning. He did
     not judge your father to be a person whom he could so properly
     consult as your uncle, and therefore readily postponed seeing him
     till after the departure of the former. He did not leave his name,
     and till the next day it was only known that a gentleman had called
     on business. On Saturday he came again. Your father was gone, your
     uncle at home, and, as I said before, they had a great deal of talk
     together. They met again on Sunday, and then _I_ saw him too. It
     was not all settled before Monday: as soon as it was, the express
     was sent off to Longbourn. But our visitor was very obstinate. I
     fancy, Lizzy, that obstinacy is the real defect of his character,
     after all. He has been accused of many faults at different times;
     but _this_ is the true one. Nothing was to be done that he did not
     do himself; though I am sure (and I do not speak it to be thanked,
     therefore say nothing about it) your uncle would most readily have
     settled the whole. They battled it together for a long time, which
     was more than either the gentleman or lady concerned in it
     deserved. But at last your uncle was forced to yield, and instead
     of being allowed to be of use to his niece, was forced to put up
     with only having the probable credit of it, which went sorely
     against the grain; and I really believe your letter this morning
     gave him great pleasure, because it required an explanation that
     would rob him of his borrowed feathers, and give the praise where
     it was due. But, Lizzy, this must go no further than yourself, or
     Jane at most. You know pretty well, I suppose, what has been done
     for the young people. His debts are to be paid, amounting, I
     believe, to considerably more than a thousand pounds, another
     thousand in addition to her own settled upon _her_, and his
     commission purchased. The reason why all this was to be done by him
     alone, was such as I have given above. It was owing to him, to his
     reserve and want of proper consideration, that Wickham’s character
     had been so misunderstood, and consequently that he had been
     received and noticed as he was. Perhaps there was some truth in
     _this_; though I doubt whether _his_ reserve, or _anybody’s_
     reserve can be answerable for the event. But in spite of all this
     fine talking, my dear Lizzy, you may rest perfectly assured that
     your uncle would never have yielded, if we had not given him credit
     for _another interest_ in the affair. When all this was resolved
     on, he returned again to his friends, who were still staying at
     Pemberley; but it was agreed that he should be in London once more
     when the wedding took place, and all money matters were then to
     receive the last finish. I believe I have now told you everything.
     It is a relation which you tell me is to give you great surprise; I
     hope at least it will not afford you any displeasure. Lydia came to
     us, and Wickham had constant admission to the house. _He_ was
     exactly what he had been when I knew him in Hertfordshire; but I
     would not tell you how little I was satisfied with _her_ behaviour
     while she stayed with us, if I had not perceived, by Jane’s letter
     last Wednesday, that her conduct on coming home was exactly of a
     piece with it, and therefore what I now tell you can give you no
     fresh pain. I talked to her repeatedly in the most serious manner,
     representing to her the wickedness of what she had done, and all
     the unhappiness she had brought on her family. If she heard me, it
     was by good luck, for I am sure she did not listen. I was sometimes
     quite provoked; but then I recollected my dear Elizabeth and Jane,
     and for their sakes had patience with her. Mr. Darcy was punctual
     in his return, and, as Lydia informed you, attended the wedding. He
     dined with us the next day, and was to leave town again on
     Wednesday or Thursday. Will you be very angry with me, my dear
     Lizzy, if I take this opportunity of saying (what I was never bold
     enough to say before) how much I like him? His behaviour to us has,
     in every respect, been as pleasing as when we were in Derbyshire.
     His understanding and opinions all please me; he wants nothing but
     a little more liveliness, and _that_, if he marry _prudently_, his
     wife may teach him. I thought him very sly; he hardly ever
     mentioned your name. But slyness seems the fashion. Pray forgive
     me, if I have been very presuming, or at least do not punish me so
     far as to exclude me from P. I shall never be quite happy till I
     have been all round the park. A low phaeton with a nice little pair
     of ponies would be the very thing. But I must write no more. The
     children have been wanting me this half hour. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The contents of this letter threw Elizabeth into a flutter of spirits,
in which it was difficult to determine whether pleasure or pain bore the
greatest share. The vague and unsettled suspicions which uncertainty had
produced, of what Mr. Darcy might have been doing to forward her
sister’s match--which she had feared to encourage, as an exertion of
goodness too great to be probable, and at the same time dreaded to be
just, from the pain of obligation--were proved beyond their greatest
extent to be true! He had followed them purposely to town, he had taken
on himself all the trouble and mortification attendant on such a
research; in which supplication had been necessary to a woman whom he
must abominate and despise, and where he was reduced to meet, frequently
meet, reason with, persuade, and finally bribe the man whom he always
most wished to avoid, and whose very name it was punishment to him to
pronounce. He had done all this for a girl whom he could neither regard
nor esteem. Her heart did whisper that he had done it for her. But it
was a hope shortly checked by other considerations; and she soon felt
that even her vanity was insufficient, when required to depend on his
affection for her, for a woman who had already refused him, as able to
overcome a sentiment so natural as abhorrence against relationship with
Wickham. Brother-in-law of Wickham! Every kind of pride must revolt from
the connection. He had, to be sure, done much. She was ashamed to think
how much. But he had given a reason for his interference, which asked no
extraordinary stretch of belief. It was reasonable that he should feel
he had been wrong; he had liberality, and he had the means of exercising
it; and though she would not place herself as his principal inducement,
she could perhaps believe, that remaining partiality for her might
assist his endeavours in a cause where her peace of mind must be
materially concerned. It was painful, exceedingly painful, to know that
they were under obligations to a person who could never receive a
return. They owed the restoration of Lydia, her character, everything to
him. Oh, how heartily did she grieve over every ungracious sensation she
had ever encouraged, every saucy speech she had ever directed towards
him! For herself she was humbled; but she was proud of him,--proud that
in a cause of compassion and honour he had been able to get the better
of himself. She read over her aunt’s commendation of him again and
again. It was hardly enough; but it pleased her. She was even sensible
of some pleasure, though mixed with regret, on finding how steadfastly
both she and her uncle had been persuaded that affection and confidence
subsisted between Mr. Darcy and herself. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She was roused from her seat and her reflections, by someone’s approach;
and, before she could strike into another path, she was overtaken by
Wickham. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I do not know. Mrs. Bennet and Lydia are going in the carriage to
Meryton. And so, my dear sister, I find, from our uncle and aunt, that
you have actually seen Pemberley.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I almost envy you the pleasure, and yet I believe it would be too much
for me, or else I could take it in my way to Newcastle. And you saw the
old housekeeper, I suppose? Poor Reynolds, she was always very fond of
me. But of course she did not mention my name to you.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That you were gone into the army, and she was afraid had--not turned
out well. At such a distance as _that_, you know, things are strangely
misrepresented.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I was surprised to see Darcy in town last month. We passed each other
several times. I wonder what he can be doing there.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Perhaps preparing for his marriage with Miss de Bourgh,” said
Elizabeth. “It must be something particular to take him there at this
time of year.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have heard, indeed, that she is uncommonly improved within this year
or two. When I last saw her, she was not very promising. I am very glad
you liked her. I hope she will turn out well.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I mention it because it is the living which I ought to have had. A most
delightful place! Excellent parsonage-house! It would have suited me in
every respect.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Exceedingly well. I should have considered it as part of my duty, and
the exertion would soon have been nothing. One ought not to repine; but,
to be sure, it would have been such a thing for me! The quiet, the
retirement of such a life, would have answered all my ideas of
happiness! But it was not to be. Did you ever hear Darcy mention the
circumstance when you were in Kent?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I _have_ heard from authority, which I thought _as good_, that it was
left you conditionally only, and at the will of the present patron.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I _did_ hear, too, that there was a time when sermon-making was not so
palatable to you as it seems to be at present; that you actually
declared your resolution of never taking orders, and that the business
had been compromised accordingly.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You did! and it was not wholly without foundation. You may remember
what I told you on that point, when first we talked of it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> They were now almost at the door of the house, for she had walked fast
to get rid of him; and unwilling, for her sister’s sake, to provoke him,
she only said in reply, with a good-humoured smile,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Come, Mr. Wickham, we are brother and sister, you know. Do not let us
quarrel about the past. In future, I hope we shall be always of one
mind.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She held out her hand: he kissed it with affectionate gallantry, though
he hardly knew how to look, and they entered the house. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Wickham was so perfectly satisfied with this conversation, that he
never again distressed himself, or provoked his dear sister Elizabeth,
by introducing the subject of it; and she was pleased to find that she
had said enough to keep him quiet. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The day of his and Lydia’s departure soon came; and Mrs. Bennet was
forced to submit to a separation, which, as her husband by no means
entered into her scheme of their all going to Newcastle, was likely to
continue at least a twelvemonth. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “As often as I can. But you know married women have never much time for
writing. My sisters may write to _me_. They will have nothing else to
do.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He is as fine a fellow,” said Mr. Bennet, as soon as they were out of
the house, “as ever I saw. He simpers, and smirks, and makes love to us
all. I am prodigiously proud of him. I defy even Sir William Lucas
himself to produce a more valuable son-in-law.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I often think,” said she, “that there is nothing so bad as parting with
one’s friends. One seems so forlorn without them.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This is the consequence, you see, madam, of marrying a daughter,” said
Elizabeth. “It must make you better satisfied that your other four are
single.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is no such thing. Lydia does not leave me because she is married;
but only because her husband’s regiment happens to be so far off. If
that had been nearer, she would not have gone so soon.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But the spiritless condition which this event threw her into was shortly
relieved, and her mind opened again to the agitation of hope, by an
article of news which then began to be in circulation. The housekeeper
at Netherfield had received orders to prepare for the arrival of her
master, who was coming down in a day or two, to shoot there for several
weeks. Mrs. Bennet was quite in the fidgets. She looked at Jane, and
smiled, and shook her head, by turns. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, well, and so Mr. Bingley is coming down, sister,” (for Mrs.
Philips first brought her the news). “Well, so much the better. Not that
I care about it, though. He is nothing to us, you know, and I am sure I
never want to see him again. But, however, he is very welcome to come to
Netherfield, if he likes it. And who knows what _may_ happen? But that
is nothing to us. You know, sister, we agreed long ago never to mention
a word about it. And so, it is quite certain he is coming?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You may depend on it,” replied the other, “for Mrs. Nichols was in
Meryton last night: I saw her passing by, and went out myself on purpose
to know the truth of it; and she told me that it was certainly true. He
comes down on Thursday, at the latest, very likely on Wednesday. She was
going to the butcher’s, she told me, on purpose to order in some meat on
Wednesday, and she has got three couple of ducks just fit to be killed.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Miss Bennet had not been able to hear of his coming without changing
colour. It was many months since she had mentioned his name to
Elizabeth; but now, as soon as they were alone together, she said,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I saw you look at me to-day, Lizzy, when my aunt told us of the present
report; and I know I appeared distressed; but don’t imagine it was from
any silly cause. I was only confused for the moment, because I felt that
I _should_ be looked at. I do assure you that the news does not affect
me either with pleasure or pain. I am glad of one thing, that he comes
alone; because we shall see the less of him. Not that I am afraid of
_myself_, but I dread other people’s remarks.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth did not know what to make of it. Had she not seen him in
Derbyshire, she might have supposed him capable of coming there with no
other view than what was acknowledged; but she still thought him partial
to Jane, and she wavered as to the greater probability of his coming
there _with_ his friend’s permission, or being bold enough to come
without it. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yet it is hard,” she sometimes thought, “that this poor man cannot come
to a house, which he has legally hired, without raising all this
speculation! I _will_ leave him to himself.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In spite of what her sister declared, and really believed to be her
feelings, in the expectation of his arrival, Elizabeth could easily
perceive that her spirits were affected by it. They were more disturbed,
more unequal, than she had often seen them. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “No, no. You forced me into visiting him last year, and promised, if I
went to see him, he should marry one of my daughters. But it ended in
nothing, and I will not be sent on a fool’s errand again.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> His wife represented to him how absolutely necessary such an attention
would be from all the neighbouring gentlemen, on his returning to
Netherfield. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “’Tis an _etiquette_ I despise,” said he. “If he wants our society, let
him seek it. He knows where we live. I will not spend _my_ hours in
running after my neighbours every time they go away and come back
again.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, all I know is, that it will be abominably rude if you do not wait
on him. But, however, that shan’t prevent my asking him to dine here, I
am determined. We must have Mrs. Long and the Gouldings soon. That will
make thirteen with ourselves, so there will be just room at table for
him.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Consoled by this resolution, she was the better able to bear her
husband’s incivility; though it was very mortifying to know that her
neighbours might all see Mr. Bingley, in consequence of it, before
_they_ did. As the day of his arrival drew near,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I begin to be sorry that he comes at all,” said Jane to her sister. “It
would be nothing; I could see him with perfect indifference; but I can
hardly bear to hear it thus perpetually talked of. My mother means well;
but she does not know, no one can know, how much I suffer from what she
says. Happy shall I be when his stay at Netherfield is over!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I wish I could say anything to comfort you,” replied Elizabeth; “but it
is wholly out of my power. You must feel it; and the usual satisfaction
of preaching patience to a sufferer is denied me, because you have
always so much.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Bingley arrived. Mrs. Bennet, through the assistance of servants,
contrived to have the earliest tidings of it, that the period of anxiety
and fretfulness on her side be as long as it could. She counted the days
that must intervene before their invitation could be sent--hopeless of
seeing him before. But on the third morning after his arrival in
Hertfordshire, she saw him from her dressing-room window enter the
paddock, and ride towards the house. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Her daughters were eagerly called to partake of her joy. Jane resolutely
kept her place at the table; but Elizabeth, to satisfy her mother, went
to the window--she looked--she saw Mr. Darcy with him, and sat down
again by her sister. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “La!” replied Kitty, “it looks just like that man that used to be with
him before. Mr. what’s his name--that tall, proud man.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Good gracious! Mr. Darcy!--and so it does, I vow. Well, any friend of
Mr. Bingley’s will always be welcome here, to be sure; but else I must
say that I hate the very sight of him.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Jane looked at Elizabeth with surprise and concern. She knew but little
of their meeting in Derbyshire, and therefore felt for the awkwardness
which must attend her sister, in seeing him almost for the first time
after receiving his explanatory letter. Both sisters were uncomfortable
enough. Each felt for the other, and of course for themselves; and their
mother talked on of her dislike of Mr. Darcy, and her resolution to be
civil to him only as Mr. Bingley’s friend, without being heard by either
of them. But Elizabeth had sources of uneasiness which could not yet be
suspected by Jane, to whom she had never yet had courage to show Mrs.
Gardiner’s letter, or to relate her own change of sentiment towards
him. To Jane, he could be only a man whose proposals she had refused,
and whose merits she had undervalued; but to her own more extensive
information, he was the person to whom the whole family were indebted
for the first of benefits, and whom she regarded herself with an
interest, if not quite so tender, at least as reasonable and just, as
what Jane felt for Bingley. Her astonishment at his coming--at his
coming to Netherfield, to Longbourn, and voluntarily seeking her again,
was almost equal to what she had known on first witnessing his altered
behaviour in Derbyshire. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The colour which had been driven from her face returned for half a
minute with an additional glow, and a smile of delight added lustre to
her eyes, as she thought for that space of time that his affection and
wishes must still be unshaken; but she would not be secure. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She sat intently at work, striving to be composed, and without daring to
lift up her eyes, till anxious curiosity carried them to the face of her
sister as the servant was approaching the door. Jane looked a little
paler than usual, but more sedate than Elizabeth had expected. On the
gentlemen’s appearing, her colour increased; yet she received them with
tolerable ease, and with a propriety of behaviour equally free from any
symptom of resentment, or any unnecessary complaisance. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth said as little to either as civility would allow, and sat down
again to her work, with an eagerness which it did not often command. She
had ventured only one glance at Darcy. He looked serious as usual; and,
she thought, more as he had been used to look in Hertfordshire, than as
she had seen him at Pemberley. But, perhaps, he could not in her
mother’s presence be what he was before her uncle and aunt. It was a
painful, but not an improbable, conjecture. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Bingley she had likewise seen for an instant, and in that short period
saw him looking both pleased and embarrassed. He was received by Mrs.
Bennet with a degree of civility which made her two daughters ashamed,
especially when contrasted with the cold and ceremonious politeness of
her courtesy and address of his friend. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth particularly, who knew that her mother owed to the latter the
preservation of her favourite daughter from irremediable infamy, was
hurt and distressed to a most painful degree by a distinction so ill
applied. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Darcy, after inquiring of her how Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner did--a question
which she could not answer without confusion--said scarcely anything. He
was not seated by her: perhaps that was the reason of his silence; but
it had not been so in Derbyshire. There he had talked to her friends
when he could not to herself. But now several minutes elapsed, without
bringing the sound of his voice; and when occasionally, unable to resist
the impulse of curiosity, she raised her eyes to his face, she as often
found him looking at Jane as at herself, and frequently on no object but
the ground. More thoughtfulness and less anxiety to please, than when
they last met, were plainly expressed. She was disappointed, and angry
with herself for being so. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I began to be afraid you would never come back again. People _did_ say,
you meant to quit the place entirely at Michaelmas; but, however, I hope
it is not true. A great many changes have happened in the neighbourhood
since you went away. Miss Lucas is married and settled: and one of my
own daughters. I suppose you have heard of it; indeed, you must have
seen it in the papers. It was in the ‘Times’ and the ‘Courier,’ I know;
though it was not put in as it ought to be. It was only said, ‘Lately,
George Wickham, Esq., to Miss Lydia Bennet,’ without there being a
syllable said of her father, or the place where she lived, or anything.
It was my brother Gardiner’s drawing up, too, and I wonder how he came
to make such an awkward business of it. Did you see it?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Bingley replied that he did, and made his congratulations. Elizabeth
dared not lift up her eyes. How Mr. Darcy looked, therefore, she could
not tell. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is a delightful thing, to be sure, to have a daughter well married,”
continued her mother; “but at the same time, Mr. Bingley, it is very
hard to have her taken away from me. They are gone down to Newcastle, a
place quite northward it seems, and there they are to stay, I do not
know how long. His regiment is there; for I suppose you have heard of
his leaving the ----shire, and of his being gone into the Regulars.
Thank heaven! he has _some_ friends, though, perhaps, not so many as he
deserves.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth, who knew this to be levelled at Mr. Darcy, was in such misery
of shame that she could hardly keep her seat. It drew from her, however,
the exertion of speaking, which nothing else had so effectually done
before; and she asked Bingley whether he meant to make any stay in the
country at present. A few weeks, he believed. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “When you have killed all your own birds, Mr. Bingley,” said her mother,
“I beg you will come here and shoot as many as you please on Mr.
Bennet’s manor. I am sure he will be vastly happy to oblige you, and
will save all the best of the coveys for you.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth’s misery increased at such unnecessary, such officious
attention! Were the same fair prospect to arise at present, as had
flattered them a year ago, everything, she was persuaded, would be
hastening to the same vexatious conclusion. At that instant she felt,
that years of happiness could not make Jane or herself amends for
moments of such painful confusion. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The first wish of my heart,” said she to herself, “is never more to be
in company with either of them. Their society can afford no pleasure
that will atone for such wretchedness as this! Let me never see either
one or the other again!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Yet the misery, for which years of happiness were to offer no
compensation, received soon afterwards material relief, from observing
how much the beauty of her sister rekindled the admiration of her former
lover. When first he came in, he had spoken to her but little, but every
five minutes seemed to be giving her more of his attention. He found her
as handsome as she had been last year; as good-natured, and as
unaffected, though not quite so chatty. Jane was anxious that no
difference should be perceived in her at all, and was really persuaded
that she talked as much as ever; but her mind was so busily engaged,
that she did not always know when she was silent. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When the gentlemen rose to go away, Mrs. Bennet was mindful of her
intended civility, and they were invited and engaged to dine at
Longbourn in a few days’ time. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You are quite a visit in my debt, Mr. Bingley,” she added; “for when
you went to town last winter, you promised to take a family dinner with
us as soon as you returned. I have not forgot, you see; and I assure you
I was very much disappointed that you did not come back and keep your
engagement.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Bingley looked a little silly at this reflection, and said something of
his concern at having been prevented by business. They then went away. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Bennet had been strongly inclined to ask them to stay and dine
there that day; but, though she always kept a very good table, she did
not think anything less than two courses could be good enough for a man
on whom she had such anxious designs, or satisfy the appetite and pride
of one who had ten thousand a year. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As soon as they were gone, Elizabeth walked out to recover her spirits;
or, in other words, to dwell without interruption on those subjects
which must deaden them more. Mr. Darcy’s behaviour astonished and vexed
her. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He could be still amiable, still pleasing to my uncle and aunt, when he
was in town; and why not to me? If he fears me, why come hither? If he
no longer cares for me, why silent? Teasing, teasing man! I will think
no more about him.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Her resolution was for a short time involuntarily kept by the approach
of her sister, who joined her with a cheerful look which showed her
better satisfied with their visitors than Elizabeth. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Now,” said she, “that this first meeting is over, I feel perfectly
easy. I know my own strength, and I shall never be embarrassed again by
his coming. I am glad he dines here on Tuesday. It will then be publicly
seen, that on both sides we meet only as common and indifferent
acquaintance.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> They did not see the gentlemen again till Tuesday; and Mrs. Bennet, in
the meanwhile, was giving way to all the happy schemes which the
good-humour and common politeness of Bingley, in half an hour’s visit,
had revived. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> On Tuesday there was a large party assembled at Longbourn; and the two
who were most anxiously expected, to the credit of their punctuality as
sportsmen, were in very good time. When they repaired to the
dining-room, Elizabeth eagerly watched to see whether Bingley would take
the place which, in all their former parties, had belonged to him, by
her sister. Her prudent mother, occupied by the same ideas, forbore to
invite him to sit by herself. On entering the room, he seemed to
hesitate; but Jane happened to look round, and happened to smile: it was
decided. He placed himself by her. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth, with a triumphant sensation, looked towards his friend. He
bore it with noble indifference; and she would have imagined that
Bingley had received his sanction to be happy, had she not seen his eyes
likewise turned towards Mr. Darcy, with an expression of half-laughing
alarm. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> His behaviour to her sister was such during dinnertime as showed an
admiration of her, which, though more guarded than formerly, persuaded
Elizabeth, that, if left wholly to himself, Jane’s happiness, and his
own, would be speedily secured. Though she dared not depend upon the
consequence, she yet received pleasure from observing his behaviour. It
gave her all the animation that her spirits could boast; for she was in
no cheerful humour. Mr. Darcy was almost as far from her as the table
could divide them. He was on one side of her mother. She knew how little
such a situation would give pleasure to either, or make either appear to
advantage. She was not near enough to hear any of their discourse; but
she could see how seldom they spoke to each other, and how formal and
cold was their manner whenever they did. Her mother’s ungraciousness
made the sense of what they owed him more painful to Elizabeth’s mind;
and she would, at times, have given anything to be privileged to tell
him, that his kindness was neither unknown nor unfelt by the whole of
the family. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She was in hopes that the evening would afford some opportunity of
bringing them together; that the whole of the visit would not pass away
without enabling them to enter into something more of conversation,
than the mere ceremonious salutation attending his entrance. Anxious and
uneasy, the period which passed in the drawing-room before the gentlemen
came, was wearisome and dull to a degree that almost made her uncivil.
She looked forward to their entrance as the point on which all her
chance of pleasure for the evening must depend. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The gentlemen came; and she thought he looked as if he would have
answered her hopes; but, alas! the ladies had crowded round the table,
where Miss Bennet was making tea, and Elizabeth pouring out the coffee,
in so close a confederacy, that there was not a single vacancy near her
which would admit of a chair. And on the gentlemen’s approaching, one of
the girls moved closer to her than ever, and said, in a whisper,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Darcy had walked away to another part of the room. She followed him with
her eyes, envied everyone to whom he spoke, had scarcely patience enough
to help anybody to coffee, and then was enraged against herself for
being so silly! </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “A man who has once been refused! How could I ever be foolish enough to
expect a renewal of his love? Is there one among the sex who would not
protest against such a weakness as a second proposal to the same woman?
There is no indignity so abhorrent to their feelings.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She could think of nothing more to say; but if he wished to converse
with her, he might have better success. He stood by her, however, for
some minutes, in silence; and, at last, on the young lady’s whispering
to Elizabeth again, he walked away. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When the tea things were removed, and the card tables placed, the ladies
all rose; and Elizabeth was then hoping to be soon joined by him, when
all her views were overthrown, by seeing him fall a victim to her
mother’s rapacity for whist players, and in a few moments after seated
with the rest of the party. She now lost every expectation of pleasure.
They were confined for the evening at different tables; and she had
nothing to hope, but that his eyes were so often turned towards her side
of the room, as to make him play as unsuccessfully as herself. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Bennet had designed to keep the two Netherfield gentlemen to
supper; but their carriage was, unluckily, ordered before any of the
others, and she had no opportunity of detaining them. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, girls,” said she, as soon as they were left to themselves, “what
say you to the day? I think everything has passed off uncommonly well, I
assure you. The dinner was as well dressed as any I ever saw. The
venison was roasted to a turn--and everybody said, they never saw so fat
a haunch. The soup was fifty times better than what we had at the
Lucases’ last week; and even Mr. Darcy acknowledged that the partridges
were remarkably well done; and I suppose he has two or three French
cooks at least. And, my dear Jane, I never saw you look in greater
beauty. Mrs. Long said so too, for I asked her whether you did not. And
what do you think she said besides? ‘Ah! Mrs. Bennet, we shall have her
at Netherfield at last!’ She did, indeed. I do think Mrs. Long is as
good a creature as ever lived--and her nieces are very pretty behaved
girls, and not at all handsome: I like them prodigiously.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Bennet, in short, was in very great spirits: she had seen enough of
Bingley’s behaviour to Jane to be convinced that she would get him at
last; and her expectations of advantage to her family, when in a happy
humour, were so far beyond reason, that she was quite disappointed at
not seeing him there again the next day, to make his proposals. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It has been a very agreeable day,” said Miss Bennet to Elizabeth. “The
party seemed so well selected, so suitable one with the other. I hope we
may often meet again.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Lizzy, you must not do so. You must not suspect me. It mortifies me. I
assure you that I have now learnt to enjoy his conversation as an
agreeable and sensible young man without having a wish beyond it. I am
perfectly satisfied, from what his manners now are, that he never had
any design of engaging my affection. It is only that he is blessed with
greater sweetness of address, and a stronger desire of generally
pleasing, than any other man.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You are very cruel,” said her sister, “you will not let me smile, and
are provoking me to it every moment.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “How hard it is in some cases to be believed! And how impossible in
others! But why should you wish to persuade me that I feel more than I
acknowledge?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That is a question which I hardly know how to answer. We all love to
instruct, though we can teach only what is not worth knowing. Forgive
me; and if you persist in indifference, do not make _me_ your
confidante.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> A few days after this visit, Mr. Bingley called again, and alone. His
friend had left him that morning for London, but was to return home in
ten days’ time. He sat with them above an hour, and was in remarkably
good spirits. Mrs. Bennet invited him to dine with them; but, with many
expressions of concern, he confessed himself engaged elsewhere. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He should be particularly happy at any time, etc., etc.; and if she
would give him leave, would take an early opportunity of waiting on
them. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He came, and in such very good time, that the ladies were none of them
dressed. In ran Mrs. Bennet to her daughters’ room, in her
dressing-gown, and with her hair half finished, crying out,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My dear Jane, make haste and hurry down. He is come--Mr. Bingley is
come. He is, indeed. Make haste, make haste. Here, Sarah, come to Miss
Bennet this moment, and help her on with her gown. Never mind Miss
Lizzy’s hair.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “We will be down as soon as we can,” said Jane; “but I dare say Kitty is
forwarder than either of us, for she went upstairs half an hour ago.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh! hang Kitty! what has she to do with it? Come, be quick, be quick!
where is your sash, my dear?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The same anxiety to get them by themselves was visible again in the
evening. After tea, Mr. Bennet retired to the library, as was his
custom, and Mary went upstairs to her instrument. Two obstacles of the
five being thus removed, Mrs. Bennet sat looking and winking at
Elizabeth and Catherine for a considerable time, without making any
impression on them. Elizabeth would not observe her; and when at last
Kitty did, she very innocently said, “What is the matter, mamma? What do
you keep winking at me for? What am I to do?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Nothing, child, nothing. I did not wink at you.” She then sat still
five minutes longer; but unable to waste such a precious occasion, she
suddenly got up, and saying to Kitty,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Come here, my love, I want to speak to you,” took her out of the room.
Jane instantly gave a look at Elizabeth which spoke her distress at such
premeditation, and her entreaty that _she_ would not give in to it. In a
few minutes, Mrs. Bennet half opened the door and called out,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “We may as well leave them by themselves, you know,” said her mother as
soon as she was in the hall. “Kitty and I are going upstairs to sit in
my dressing-room.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth made no attempt to reason with her mother, but remained
quietly in the hall till she and Kitty were out of sight, then returned
into the drawing-room. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Bennet’s schemes for this day were ineffectual. Bingley was
everything that was charming, except the professed lover of her
daughter. His ease and cheerfulness rendered him a most agreeable
addition to their evening party; and he bore with the ill-judged
officiousness of the mother, and heard all her silly remarks with a
forbearance and command of countenance particularly grateful to the
daughter. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He scarcely needed an invitation to stay supper; and before he went away
an engagement was formed, chiefly through his own and Mrs. Bennet’s
means, for his coming next morning to shoot with her husband. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> After this day, Jane said no more of her indifference. Not a word passed
between the sisters concerning Bingley; but Elizabeth went to bed in the
happy belief that all must speedily be concluded, unless Mr. Darcy
returned within the stated time. Seriously, however, she felt tolerably
persuaded that all this must have taken place with that gentleman’s
concurrence. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Bingley was punctual to his appointment; and he and Mr. Bennet spent the
morning together, as had been agreed on. The latter was much more
agreeable than his companion expected. There was nothing of presumption
or folly in Bingley that could provoke his ridicule, or disgust him into
silence; and he was more communicative, and less eccentric, than the
other had ever seen him. Bingley of course returned with him to dinner;
and in the evening Mrs. Bennet’s invention was again at work to get
everybody away from him and her daughter. Elizabeth, who had a letter to
write, went into the breakfast-room for that purpose soon after tea; for
as the others were all going to sit down to cards, she could not be
wanted to counteract her mother’s schemes. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> But on her returning to the drawing-room, when her letter was finished,
she saw, to her infinite surprise, there was reason to fear that her
mother had been too ingenious for her. On opening the door, she
perceived her sister and Bingley standing together over the hearth, as
if engaged in earnest conversation; and had this led to no suspicion,
the faces of both, as they hastily turned round and moved away from each
other, would have told it all. _Their_ situation was awkward enough; but
_hers_ she thought was still worse. Not a syllable was uttered by
either; and Elizabeth was on the point of going away again, when
Bingley, who as well as the other had sat down, suddenly rose, and,
whispering a few words to her sister, ran out of the room. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Jane could have no reserves from Elizabeth, where confidence would give
pleasure; and, instantly embracing her, acknowledged, with the liveliest
emotion, that she was the happiest creature in the world. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “’Tis too much!” she added, “by far too much. I do not deserve it. Oh,
why is not everybody as happy?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth’s congratulations were given with a sincerity, a warmth, a
delight, which words could but poorly express. Every sentence of
kindness was a fresh source of happiness to Jane. But she would not
allow herself to stay with her sister, or say half that remained to be
said, for the present. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I must go instantly to my mother,” she cried. “I would not on any
account trifle with her affectionate solicitude, or allow her to hear it
from anyone but myself. He is gone to my father already. Oh, Lizzy, to
know that what I have to relate will give such pleasure to all my dear
family! how shall I bear so much happiness?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth, who was left by herself, now smiled at the rapidity and ease
with which an affair was finally settled, that had given them so many
previous months of suspense and vexation. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And this,” said she, “is the end of all his friend’s anxious
circumspection! of all his sister’s falsehood and contrivance! the
happiest, wisest, and most reasonable end!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In a few minutes she was joined by Bingley, whose conference with her
father had been short and to the purpose. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He then shut the door, and, coming up to her, claimed the good wishes
and affection of a sister. Elizabeth honestly and heartily expressed her
delight in the prospect of their relationship. They shook hands with
great cordiality; and then, till her sister came down, she had to listen
to all he had to say of his own happiness, and of Jane’s perfections;
and in spite of his being a lover, Elizabeth really believed all his
expectations of felicity to be rationally founded, because they had for
basis the excellent understanding and super-excellent disposition of
Jane, and a general similarity of feeling and taste between her and
himself. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> It was an evening of no common delight to them all; the satisfaction of
Miss Bennet’s mind gave such a glow of sweet animation to her face, as
made her look handsomer than ever. Kitty simpered and smiled, and hoped
her turn was coming soon. Mrs. Bennet could not give her consent, or
speak her approbation in terms warm enough to satisfy her feelings,
though she talked to Bingley of nothing else, for half an hour; and when
Mr. Bennet joined them at supper, his voice and manner plainly showed
how really happy he was. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Not a word, however, passed his lips in allusion to it, till their
visitor took his leave for the night; but as soon as he was gone, he
turned to his daughter and said,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You are a good girl,” he replied, “and I have great pleasure in
thinking you will be so happily settled. I have not a doubt of your
doing very well together. Your tempers are by no means unlike. You are
each of you so complying, that nothing will ever be resolved on; so
easy, that every servant will cheat you; and so generous, that you will
always exceed your income.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Exceed their income! My dear Mr. Bennet,” cried his wife, “what are you
talking of? Why, he has four or five thousand a year, and very likely
more.” Then addressing her daughter, “Oh, my dear, dear Jane, I am so
happy! I am sure I shan’t get a wink of sleep all night. I knew how it
would be. I always said it must be so, at last. I was sure you could not
be so beautiful for nothing! I remember, as soon as ever I saw him, when
he first came into Hertfordshire last year, I thought how likely it was
that you should come together. Oh, he is the handsomest young man that
ever was seen!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Wickham, Lydia, were all forgotten. Jane was beyond competition her
favourite child. At that moment she cared for no other. Her younger
sisters soon began to make interest with her for objects of happiness
which she might in future be able to dispense. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mary petitioned for the use of the library at Netherfield; and Kitty
begged very hard for a few balls there every winter. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Bingley, from this time, was of course a daily visitor at Longbourn;
coming frequently before breakfast, and always remaining till after
supper; unless when some barbarous neighbour, who could not be enough
detested, had given him an invitation to dinner, which he thought
himself obliged to accept. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth had now but little time for conversation with her sister; for
while he was present Jane had no attention to bestow on anyone else: but
she found herself considerably useful to both of them, in those hours of
separation that must sometimes occur. In the absence of Jane, he always
attached himself to Elizabeth for the pleasure of talking of her; and
when Bingley was gone, Jane constantly sought the same means of relief. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “He has made me so happy,” said she, one evening, “by telling me that he
was totally ignorant of my being in town last spring! I had not believed
it possible.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It must have been his sisters’ doing. They were certainly no friends to
his acquaintance with me, which I cannot wonder at, since he might have
chosen so much more advantageously in many respects. But when they see,
as I trust they will, that their brother is happy with me, they will
learn to be contented, and we shall be on good terms again: though we
can never be what we once were to each other.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That is the most unforgiving speech,” said Elizabeth, “that I ever
heard you utter. Good girl! It would vex me, indeed, to see you again
the dupe of Miss Bingley’s pretended regard.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Would you believe it, Lizzy, that when he went to town last November he
really loved me, and nothing but a persuasion of _my_ being indifferent
would have prevented his coming down again?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This naturally introduced a panegyric from Jane on his diffidence, and
the little value he put on his own good qualities. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth was pleased to find that he had not betrayed the interference
of his friend; for, though Jane had the most generous and forgiving
heart in the world, she knew it was a circumstance which must prejudice
her against him. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am certainly the most fortunate creature that ever existed!” cried
Jane. “Oh, Lizzy, why am I thus singled from my family, and blessed
above them all? If I could but see you as happy! If there were but such
another man for you!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If you were to give me forty such men I never could be so happy as you.
Till I have your disposition, your goodness, I never can have your
happiness. No, no, let me shift for myself; and, perhaps, if I have very
good luck, I may meet with another Mr. Collins in time.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The situation of affairs in the Longbourn family could not be long a
secret. Mrs. Bennet was privileged to whisper it to Mrs. Philips, and
she ventured, without any permission, to do the same by all her
neighbours in Meryton. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The Bennets were speedily pronounced to be the luckiest family in the
world; though only a few weeks before, when Lydia had first run away,
they had been generally proved to be marked out for misfortune. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> One morning, about a week after Bingley’s engagement with Jane had been
formed, as he and the females of the family were sitting together in the
dining-room, their attention was suddenly drawn to the window by the
sound of a carriage; and they perceived a chaise and four driving up the
lawn. It was too early in the morning for visitors; and besides, the
equipage did not answer to that of any of their neighbours. The horses
were post; and neither the carriage, nor the livery of the servant who
preceded it, were familiar to them. As it was certain, however, that
somebody was coming, Bingley instantly prevailed on Miss Bennet to avoid
the confinement of such an intrusion, and walk away with him into the
shrubbery. They both set off; and the conjectures of the remaining three
continued, though with little satisfaction, till the door was thrown
open, and their visitor entered. It was Lady Catherine de Bourgh. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> They were of course all intending to be surprised: but their
astonishment was beyond their expectation; and on the part of Mrs.
Bennet and Kitty, though she was perfectly unknown to them, even
inferior to what Elizabeth felt. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She entered the room with an air more than usually ungracious, made no
other reply to Elizabeth’s salutation than a slight inclination of the
head, and sat down without saying a word. Elizabeth had mentioned her
name to her mother on her Ladyship’s entrance, though no request of
introduction had been made. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Bennet, all amazement, though flattered by having a guest of such
high importance, received her with the utmost politeness. After sitting
for a moment in silence, she said, very stiffly, to Elizabeth,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, madam,” said Mrs. Bennet, delighted to speak to a Lady Catherine.
“She is my youngest girl but one. My youngest of all is lately married,
and my eldest is somewhere about the ground, walking with a young man,
who, I believe, will soon become a part of the family.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is nothing in comparison of Rosings, my Lady, I dare say; but, I
assure you, it is much larger than Sir William Lucas’s.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth now expected that she would produce a letter for her from
Charlotte, as it seemed the only probable motive for her calling. But no
letter appeared, and she was completely puzzled. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Bennet, with great civility, begged her Ladyship to take some
refreshment: but Lady Catherine very resolutely, and not very politely,
declined eating anything; and then, rising up, said to Elizabeth,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Miss Bennet, there seemed to be a prettyish kind of a little wilderness
on one side of your lawn. I should be glad to take a turn in it, if you
will favour me with your company.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Go, my dear,” cried her mother, “and show her Ladyship about the
different walks. I think she will be pleased with the hermitage.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth obeyed; and, running into her own room for her parasol,
attended her noble guest downstairs. As they passed through the hall,
Lady Catherine opened the doors into the dining-parlour and
drawing-room, and pronouncing them, after a short survey, to be
decent-looking rooms, walked on. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Her carriage remained at the door, and Elizabeth saw that her
waiting-woman was in it. They proceeded in silence along the gravel walk
that led to the copse; Elizabeth was determined to make no effort for
conversation with a woman who was now more than usually insolent and
disagreeable. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You can be at no loss, Miss Bennet, to understand the reason of my
journey hither. Your own heart, your own conscience, must tell you why I
come.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Indeed, you are mistaken, madam; I have not been at all able to account
for the honour of seeing you here.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Miss Bennet,” replied her Ladyship, in an angry tone, “you ought to
know that I am not to be trifled with. But however insincere _you_ may
choose to be, you shall not find _me_ so. My character has ever been
celebrated for its sincerity and frankness; and in a cause of such
moment as this, I shall certainly not depart from it. A report of a most
alarming nature reached me two days ago. I was told, that not only your
sister was on the point of being most advantageously married, but that
_you_--that Miss Elizabeth Bennet would, in all likelihood, be soon
afterwards united to my nephew--my own nephew, Mr. Darcy. Though I
_know_ it must be a scandalous falsehood, though I would not injure him
so much as to suppose the truth of it possible, I instantly resolved on
setting off for this place, that I might make my sentiments known to
you.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If you believed it impossible to be true,” said Elizabeth, colouring
with astonishment and disdain, “I wonder you took the trouble of coming
so far. What could your Ladyship propose by it?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Your coming to Longbourn, to see me and my family,” said Elizabeth
coolly, “will be rather a confirmation of it--if, indeed, such a report
is in existence.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If! do you then pretend to be ignorant of it? Has it not been
industriously circulated by yourselves? Do you not know that such a
report is spread abroad?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I do not pretend to possess equal frankness with your Ladyship. _You_
may ask questions which _I_ shall not choose to answer.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This is not to be borne. Miss Bennet, I insist on being satisfied. Has
he, has my nephew, made you an offer of marriage?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It ought to be so; it must be so, while he retains the use of his
reason. But _your_ arts and allurements may, in a moment of infatuation,
have made him forget what he owes to himself and to all his family. You
may have drawn him in.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Miss Bennet, do you know who I am? I have not been accustomed to such
language as this. I am almost the nearest relation he has in the world,
and am entitled to know all his dearest concerns.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Let me be rightly understood. This match, to which you have the
presumption to aspire, can never take place. No, never. Mr. Darcy is
engaged to _my daughter_. Now, what have you to say?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The engagement between them is of a peculiar kind. From their infancy,
they have been intended for each other. It was the favourite wish of
_his_ mother, as well as of hers. While in their cradles we planned the
union; and now, at the moment when the wishes of both sisters would be
accomplished, is their marriage to be prevented by a young woman of
inferior birth, of no importance in the world, and wholly unallied to
the family? Do you pay no regard to the wishes of his friends--to his
tacit engagement with Miss de Bourgh? Are you lost to every feeling of
propriety and delicacy? Have you not heard me say, that from his
earliest hours he was destined for his cousin?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes; and I had heard it before. But what is that to me? If there is no
other objection to my marrying your nephew, I shall certainly not be
kept from it by knowing that his mother and aunt wished him to marry
Miss de Bourgh. You both did as much as you could in planning the
marriage. Its completion depended on others. If Mr. Darcy is neither by
honour nor inclination confined to his cousin, why is not he to make
another choice? And if I am that choice, why may not I accept him?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Because honour, decorum, prudence--nay, interest--forbid it. Yes, Miss
Bennet, interest; for do not expect to be noticed by his family or
friends, if you wilfully act against the inclinations of all. You will
be censured, slighted, and despised, by everyone connected with him.
Your alliance will be a disgrace; your name will never even be mentioned
by any of us.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “These are heavy misfortunes,” replied Elizabeth. “But the wife of Mr.
Darcy must have such extraordinary sources of happiness necessarily
attached to her situation, that she could, upon the whole, have no cause
to repine.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Obstinate, headstrong girl! I am ashamed of you! Is this your gratitude
for my attentions to you last spring? Is nothing due to me on that
score? Let us sit down. You are to understand, Miss Bennet, that I came
here with the determined resolution of carrying my purpose; nor will I
be dissuaded from it. I have not been used to submit to any person’s
whims. I have not been in the habit of brooking disappointment.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I will not be interrupted! Hear me in silence. My daughter and my
nephew are formed for each other. They are descended, on the maternal
side, from the same noble line; and, on the father’s, from respectable,
honourable, and ancient, though untitled, families. Their fortune on
both sides is splendid. They are destined for each other by the voice of
every member of their respective houses; and what is to divide
them?--the upstart pretensions of a young woman without family,
connections, or fortune! Is this to be endured? But it must not, shall
not be! If you were sensible of your own good, you would not wish to
quit the sphere in which you have been brought up.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “In marrying your nephew, I should not consider myself as quitting that
sphere. He is a gentleman; I am a gentleman’s daughter; so far we are
equal.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “True. You _are_ a gentleman’s daughter. But what was your mother? Who
are your uncles and aunts? Do not imagine me ignorant of their
condition.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Whatever my connections may be,” said Elizabeth, “if your nephew does
not object to them, they can be nothing to _you_.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Though Elizabeth would not, for the mere purpose of obliging Lady
Catherine, have answered this question, she could not but say, after a
moment’s deliberation,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Miss Bennet, I am shocked and astonished. I expected to find a more
reasonable young woman. But do not deceive yourself into a belief that I
will ever recede. I shall not go away till you have given me the
assurance I require.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And I certainly _never_ shall give it. I am not to be intimidated into
anything so wholly unreasonable. Your Ladyship wants Mr. Darcy to marry
your daughter; but would my giving you the wished-for promise make
_their_ marriage at all more probable? Supposing him to be attached to
me, would _my_ refusing to accept his hand make him wish to bestow it on
his cousin? Allow me to say, Lady Catherine, that the arguments with
which you have supported this extraordinary application have been as
frivolous as the application was ill-judged. You have widely mistaken my
character, if you think I can be worked on by such persuasions as these.
How far your nephew might approve of your interference in _his_ affairs,
I cannot tell; but you have certainly no right to concern yourself in
mine. I must beg, therefore, to be importuned no further on the
subject.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Not so hasty, if you please. I have by no means done. To all the
objections I have already urged I have still another to add. I am no
stranger to the particulars of your youngest sister’s infamous
elopement. I know it all; that the young man’s marrying her was a
patched-up business, at the expense of your father and uncle. And is
_such_ a girl to be my nephew’s sister? Is _her_ husband, who is the son
of his late father’s steward, to be his brother? Heaven and earth!--of
what are you thinking? Are the shades of Pemberley to be thus polluted?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You can _now_ have nothing further to say,” she resentfully answered.
“You have insulted me, in every possible method. I must beg to return to
the house.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You have no regard, then, for the honour and credit of my nephew!
Unfeeling, selfish girl! Do you not consider that a connection with you
must disgrace him in the eyes of everybody?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have said no such thing. I am only resolved to act in that manner,
which will, in my own opinion, constitute my happiness, without
reference to _you_, or to any person so wholly unconnected with me.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It is well. You refuse, then, to oblige me. You refuse to obey the
claims of duty, honour, and gratitude. You are determined to ruin him in
the opinion of all his friends, and make him the contempt of the world.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Neither duty, nor honour, nor gratitude,” replied Elizabeth, “has any
possible claim on me, in the present instance. No principle of either
would be violated by my marriage with Mr. Darcy. And with regard to the
resentment of his family, or the indignation of the world, if the former
_were_ excited by his marrying me, it would not give me one moment’s
concern--and the world in general would have too much sense to join in
the scorn.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And this is your real opinion! This is your final resolve! Very well. I
shall now know how to act. Do not imagine, Miss Bennet, that your
ambition will ever be gratified. I came to try you. I hoped to find you
reasonable; but depend upon it I will carry my point.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In this manner Lady Catherine talked on till they were at the door of
the carriage, when, turning hastily round, she added,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I take no leave of you, Miss Bennet. I send no compliments to your
mother. You deserve no such attention. I am most seriously displeased.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth made no answer; and without attempting to persuade her
Ladyship to return into the house, walked quietly into it herself. She
heard the carriage drive away as she proceeded upstairs. Her mother
impatiently met her at the door of her dressing-room, to ask why Lady
Catherine would not come in again and rest herself. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “She is a very fine-looking woman! and her calling here was prodigiously
civil! for she only came, I suppose, to tell us the Collinses were well.
She is on her road somewhere, I dare say; and so, passing through
Meryton, thought she might as well call on you. I suppose she had
nothing particular to say to you, Lizzy?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth was forced to give in to a little falsehood here; for to
acknowledge the substance of their conversation was impossible. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The discomposure of spirits which this extraordinary visit threw
Elizabeth into could not be easily overcome; nor could she for many
hours learn to think of it less than incessantly. Lady Catherine, it
appeared, had actually taken the trouble of this journey from Rosings
for the sole purpose of breaking off her supposed engagement with Mr.
Darcy. It was a rational scheme, to be sure! but from what the report of
their engagement could originate, Elizabeth was at a loss to imagine;
till she recollected that _his_ being the intimate friend of Bingley,
and _her_ being the sister of Jane, was enough, at a time when the
expectation of one wedding made everybody eager for another, to supply
the idea. She had not herself forgotten to feel that the marriage of her
sister must bring them more frequently together. And her neighbours at
Lucas Lodge, therefore, (for through their communication with the
Collinses, the report, she concluded, had reached Lady Catherine,) had
only set _that_ down as almost certain and immediate which _she_ had
looked forward to as possible at some future time. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In revolving Lady Catherine’s expressions, however, she could not help
feeling some uneasiness as to the possible consequence of her persisting
in this interference. From what she had said of her resolution to
prevent the marriage, it occurred to Elizabeth that she must meditate an
application to her nephew; and how he might take a similar
representation of the evils attached to a connection with her she dared
not pronounce. She knew not the exact degree of his affection for his
aunt, or his dependence on her judgment, but it was natural to suppose
that he thought much higher of her Ladyship than _she_ could do; and it
was certain, that in enumerating the miseries of a marriage with _one_
whose immediate connections were so unequal to his own, his aunt would
address him on his weakest side. With his notions of dignity, he would
probably feel that the arguments, which to Elizabeth had appeared weak
and ridiculous, contained much good sense and solid reasoning. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> If he had been wavering before, as to what he should do, which had often
seemed likely, the advice and entreaty of so near a relation might
settle every doubt, and determine him at once to be as happy as dignity
unblemished could make him. In that case he would return no more. Lady
Catherine might see him in her way through town; and his engagement to
Bingley of coming again to Netherfield must give way. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If, therefore, an excuse for not keeping his promise should come to his
friend within a few days,” she added, “I shall know how to understand
it. I shall then give over every expectation, every wish of his
constancy. If he is satisfied with only regretting me, when he might
have obtained my affections and hand, I shall soon cease to regret him
at all.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The surprise of the rest of the family, on hearing who their visitor had
been, was very great: but they obligingly satisfied it with the same
kind of supposition which had appeased Mrs. Bennet’s curiosity; and
Elizabeth was spared from much teasing on the subject. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The next morning, as she was going down stairs, she was met by her
father, who came out of his library with a letter in his hand. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> She followed him thither; and her curiosity to know what he had to tell
her was heightened by the supposition of its being in some manner
connected with the letter he held. It suddenly struck her that it might
be from Lady Catherine, and she anticipated with dismay all the
consequent explanations. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I have received a letter this morning that has astonished me
exceedingly. As it principally concerns yourself, you ought to know its
contents. I did not know before that I had _two_ daughters on the brink
of matrimony. Let me congratulate you on a very important conquest.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The colour now rushed into Elizabeth’s cheeks in the instantaneous
conviction of its being a letter from the nephew, instead of the aunt;
and she was undetermined whether most to be pleased that he explained
himself at all, or offended that his letter was not rather addressed to
herself, when her father continued,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You look conscious. Young ladies have great penetration in such matters
as these; but I think I may defy even _your_ sagacity to discover the
name of your admirer. This letter is from Mr. Collins.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Something very much to the purpose, of course. He begins with
congratulations on the approaching nuptials of my eldest daughter, of
which, it seems, he has been told by some of the good-natured, gossiping
Lucases. I shall not sport with your impatience by reading what he says
on that point. What relates to yourself is as follows:--‘Having thus
offered you the sincere congratulations of Mrs. Collins and myself on
this happy event, let me now add a short hint on the subject of another,
of which we have been advertised by the same authority. Your daughter
Elizabeth, it is presumed, will not long bear the name of Bennet, after
her eldest sister has resigned it; and the chosen partner of her fate
may be reasonably looked up to as one of the most illustrious personages
in this land.’ Can you possibly guess, Lizzy, who is meant by this?
‘This young gentleman is blessed, in a peculiar way, with everything the
heart of mortal can most desire,--splendid property, noble kindred, and
extensive patronage. Yet, in spite of all these temptations, let me warn
my cousin Elizabeth, and yourself, of what evils you may incur by a
precipitate closure with this gentleman’s proposals, which, of course,
you will be inclined to take immediate advantage of.’ Have you any idea,
Lizzy, who this gentleman is? But now it comes out. ‘My motive for
cautioning you is as follows:--We have reason to imagine that his aunt,
Lady Catherine de Bourgh, does not look on the match with a friendly
eye.’ _Mr. Darcy_, you see, is the man! Now, Lizzy, I think I _have_
surprised you. Could he, or the Lucases, have pitched on any man, within
the circle of our acquaintance, whose name would have given the lie more
effectually to what they related? Mr. Darcy, who never looks at any
woman but to see a blemish, and who probably never looked at _you_ in
his life! It is admirable!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth tried to join in her father’s pleasantry, but could only force
one most reluctant smile. Never had his wit been directed in a manner so
little agreeable to her. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “‘After mentioning the likelihood of this marriage to her Ladyship last
night, she immediately, with her usual condescension, expressed what she
felt on the occasion; when it became apparent, that, on the score of
some family objections on the part of my cousin, she would never give
her consent to what she termed so disgraceful a match. I thought it my
duty to give the speediest intelligence of this to my cousin, that she
and her noble admirer may be aware of what they are about, and not run
hastily into a marriage which has not been properly sanctioned.’ Mr.
Collins, moreover, adds, ‘I am truly rejoiced that my cousin Lydia’s sad
business has been so well hushed up, and am only concerned that their
living together before the marriage took place should be so generally
known. I must not, however, neglect the duties of my station, or refrain
from declaring my amazement, at hearing that you received the young
couple into your house as soon as they were married. It was an
encouragement of vice; and had I been the rector of Longbourn, I should
very strenuously have opposed it. You ought certainly to forgive them as
a Christian, but never to admit them in your sight, or allow their
names to be mentioned in your hearing.’ _That_ is his notion of
Christian forgiveness! The rest of his letter is only about his dear
Charlotte’s situation, and his expectation of a young olive-branch. But,
Lizzy, you look as if you did not enjoy it. You are not going to be
_missish_, I hope, and pretend to be affronted at an idle report. For
what do we live, but to make sport for our neighbours, and laugh at them
in our turn?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Yes, _that_ is what makes it amusing. Had they fixed on any other man
it would have been nothing; but _his_ perfect indifference and _your_
pointed dislike make it so delightfully absurd! Much as I abominate
writing, I would not give up Mr. Collins’s correspondence for any
consideration. Nay, when I read a letter of his, I cannot help giving
him the preference even over Wickham, much as I value the impudence and
hypocrisy of my son-in-law. And pray, Lizzy, what said Lady Catherine
about this report? Did she call to refuse her consent?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> To this question his daughter replied only with a laugh; and as it had
been asked without the least suspicion, she was not distressed by his
repeating it. Elizabeth had never been more at a loss to make her
feelings appear what they were not. It was necessary to laugh when she
would rather have cried. Her father had most cruelly mortified her by
what he said of Mr. Darcy’s indifference; and she could do nothing but
wonder at such a want of penetration, or fear that, perhaps, instead of
his seeing too _little_, she might have fancied too _much_. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Instead of receiving any such letter of excuse from his friend, as
Elizabeth half expected Mr. Bingley to do, he was able to bring Darcy
with him to Longbourn before many days had passed after Lady Catherine’s
visit. The gentlemen arrived early; and, before Mrs. Bennet had time to
tell him of their having seen his aunt, of which her daughter sat in
momentary dread, Bingley, who wanted to be alone with Jane, proposed
their all walking out. It was agreed to. Mrs. Bennet was not in the
habit of walking, Mary could never spare time, but the remaining five
set off together. Bingley and Jane, however, soon allowed the others to
outstrip them. They lagged behind, while Elizabeth, Kitty, and Darcy
were to entertain each other. Very little was said by either; Kitty was
too much afraid of him to talk; Elizabeth was secretly forming a
desperate resolution; and, perhaps, he might be doing the same. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> They walked towards the Lucases’, because Kitty wished to call upon
Maria; and as Elizabeth saw no occasion for making it a general concern,
when Kitty left them she went boldly on with him alone. Now was the
moment for her resolution to be executed; and while her courage was
high, she immediately said,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Mr. Darcy, I am a very selfish creature, and for the sake of giving
relief to my own feelings care not how much I may be wounding yours. I
can no longer help thanking you for your unexampled kindness to my poor
sister. Ever since I have known it I have been most anxious to
acknowledge to you how gratefully I feel it. Were it known to the rest
of my family I should not have merely my own gratitude to express.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am sorry, exceedingly sorry,” replied Darcy, in a tone of surprise
and emotion, “that you have ever been informed of what may, in a
mistaken light, have given you uneasiness. I did not think Mrs. Gardiner
was so little to be trusted.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You must not blame my aunt. Lydia’s thoughtlessness first betrayed to
me that you had been concerned in the matter; and, of course, I could
not rest till I knew the particulars. Let me thank you again and again,
in the name of all my family, for that generous compassion which induced
you to take so much trouble, and bear so many mortifications, for the
sake of discovering them.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “If you _will_ thank me,” he replied, “let it be for yourself alone.
That the wish of giving happiness to you might add force to the other
inducements which led me on, I shall not attempt to deny. But your
_family_ owe me nothing. Much as I respect them, I believe I thought
only of _you_.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth was too much embarrassed to say a word. After a short pause,
her companion added, “You are too generous to trifle with me. If your
feelings are still what they were last April, tell me so at once. _My_
affections and wishes are unchanged; but one word from you will silence
me on this subject for ever.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth, feeling all the more than common awkwardness and anxiety of
his situation, now forced herself to speak; and immediately, though not
very fluently, gave him to understand that her sentiments had undergone
so material a change since the period to which he alluded, as to make
her receive with gratitude and pleasure his present assurances. The
happiness which this reply produced was such as he had probably never
felt before; and he expressed himself on the occasion as sensibly and as
warmly as a man violently in love can be supposed to do. Had Elizabeth
been able to encounter his eyes, she might have seen how well the
expression of heartfelt delight diffused over his face became him: but
though she could not look she could listen; and he told her of feelings
which, in proving of what importance she was to him, made his affection
every moment more valuable. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> They walked on without knowing in what direction. There was too much to
be thought, and felt, and said, for attention to any other objects. She
soon learnt that they were indebted for their present good understanding
to the efforts of his aunt, who _did_ call on him in her return through
London, and there relate her journey to Longbourn, its motive, and the
substance of her conversation with Elizabeth; dwelling emphatically on
every expression of the latter, which, in her Ladyship’s apprehension,
peculiarly denoted her perverseness and assurance, in the belief that
such a relation must assist her endeavours to obtain that promise from
her nephew which _she_ had refused to give. But, unluckily for her
Ladyship, its effect had been exactly contrariwise. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It taught me to hope,” said he, “as I had scarcely ever allowed myself
to hope before. I knew enough of your disposition to be certain, that
had you been absolutely, irrevocably decided against me, you would have
acknowledged it to Lady Catherine frankly and openly.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth coloured and laughed as she replied, “Yes, you know enough of
my _frankness_ to believe me capable of _that_. After abusing you so
abominably to your face, I could have no scruple in abusing you to all
your relations.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “What did you say of me that I did not deserve? For though your
accusations were ill-founded, formed on mistaken premises, my behaviour
to you at the time had merited the severest reproof. It was
unpardonable. I cannot think of it without abhorrence.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “We will not quarrel for the greater share of blame annexed to that
evening,” said Elizabeth. “The conduct of neither, if strictly
examined, will be irreproachable; but since then we have both, I hope,
improved in civility.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I cannot be so easily reconciled to myself. The recollection of what I
then said, of my conduct, my manners, my expressions during the whole of
it, is now, and has been many months, inexpressibly painful to me. Your
reproof, so well applied, I shall never forget: ‘Had you behaved in a
more gentlemanlike manner.’ Those were your words. You know not, you can
scarcely conceive, how they have tortured me; though it was some time, I
confess, before I was reasonable enough to allow their justice.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I was certainly very far from expecting them to make so strong an
impression. I had not the smallest idea of their being ever felt in such
a way.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I can easily believe it. You thought me then devoid of every proper
feeling, I am sure you did. The turn of your countenance I shall never
forget, as you said that I could not have addressed you in any possible
way that would induce you to accept me.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Oh, do not repeat what I then said. These recollections will not do at
all. I assure you that I have long been most heartily ashamed of it.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Darcy mentioned his letter. “Did it,” said he,--“did it _soon_ make you
think better of me? Did you, on reading it, give any credit to its
contents?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I knew,” said he, “that what I wrote must give you pain, but it was
necessary. I hope you have destroyed the letter. There was one part,
especially the opening of it, which I should dread your having the power
of reading again. I can remember some expressions which might justly
make you hate me.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The letter shall certainly be burnt, if you believe it essential to the
preservation of my regard; but, though we have both reason to think my
opinions not entirely unalterable, they are not, I hope, quite so easily
changed as that implies.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “When I wrote that letter,” replied Darcy, “I believed myself perfectly
calm and cool; but I am since convinced that it was written in a
dreadful bitterness of spirit.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “The letter, perhaps, began in bitterness, but it did not end so. The
adieu is charity itself. But think no more of the letter. The feelings
of the person who wrote and the person who received it are now so widely
different from what they were then, that every unpleasant circumstance
attending it ought to be forgotten. You must learn some of my
philosophy. Think only of the past as its remembrance gives you
pleasure.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I cannot give you credit for any philosophy of the kind. _Your_
retrospections must be so totally void of reproach, that the contentment
arising from them is not of philosophy, but, what is much better, of
ignorance. But with _me_, it is not so. Painful recollections will
intrude, which cannot, which ought not to be repelled. I have been a
selfish being all my life, in practice, though not in principle. As a
child I was taught what was _right_, but I was not taught to correct my
temper. I was given good principles, but left to follow them in pride
and conceit. Unfortunately an only son (for many years an only _child_),
I was spoiled by my parents, who, though good themselves, (my father
particularly, all that was benevolent and amiable,) allowed, encouraged,
almost taught me to be selfish and overbearing, to care for none beyond
my own family circle, to think meanly of all the rest of the world, to
_wish_ at least to think meanly of their sense and worth compared with
my own. Such I was, from eight to eight-and-twenty; and such I might
still have been but for you, dearest, loveliest Elizabeth! What do I not
owe you! You taught me a lesson, hard indeed at first, but most
advantageous. By you, I was properly humbled. I came to you without a
doubt of my reception. You showed me how insufficient were all my
pretensions to please a woman worthy of being pleased.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My manners must have been in fault, but not intentionally, I assure
you. I never meant to deceive you, but my spirits might often lead me
wrong. How you must have hated me after _that_ evening!” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am almost afraid of asking what you thought of me when we met at
Pemberley. You blamed me for coming?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Your surprise could not be greater than _mine_ in being noticed by you.
My conscience told me that I deserved no extraordinary politeness, and I
confess that I did not expect to receive _more_ than my due.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My object _then_,” replied Darcy, “was to show you, by every civility
in my power, that I was not so mean as to resent the past; and I hoped
to obtain your forgiveness, to lessen your ill opinion, by letting you
see that your reproofs had been attended to. How soon any other wishes
introduced themselves, I can hardly tell, but I believe in about half
an hour after I had seen you.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He then told her of Georgiana’s delight in her acquaintance, and of her
disappointment at its sudden interruption; which naturally leading to
the cause of that interruption, she soon learnt that his resolution of
following her from Derbyshire in quest of her sister had been formed
before he quitted the inn, and that his gravity and thoughtfulness there
had arisen from no other struggles than what such a purpose must
comprehend. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> After walking several miles in a leisurely manner, and too busy to know
anything about it, they found at last, on examining their watches, that
it was time to be at home. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “What could have become of Mr. Bingley and Jane?” was a wonder which
introduced the discussion of _their_ affairs. Darcy was delighted with
their engagement; his friend had given him the earliest information of
it. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “That is to say, you had given your permission. I guessed as much.” And
though he exclaimed at the term, she found that it had been pretty much
the case. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “On the evening before my going to London,” said he, “I made a
confession to him, which I believe I ought to have made long ago. I told
him of all that had occurred to make my former interference in his
affairs absurd and impertinent. His surprise was great. He had never had
the slightest suspicion. I told him, moreover, that I believed myself
mistaken in supposing, as I had done, that your sister was indifferent
to him; and as I could easily perceive that his attachment to her was
unabated, I felt no doubt of their happiness together.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Did you speak from your own observation,” said she, “when you told him
that my sister loved him, or merely from my information last spring?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “From the former. I had narrowly observed her, during the two visits
which I had lately made her here; and I was convinced of her affection.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It did. Bingley is most unaffectedly modest. His diffidence had
prevented his depending on his own judgment in so anxious a case, but
his reliance on mine made everything easy. I was obliged to confess one
thing, which for a time, and not unjustly, offended him. I could not
allow myself to conceal that your sister had been in town three months
last winter, that I had known it, and purposely kept it from him. He was
angry. But his anger, I am persuaded, lasted no longer than he remained
in any doubt of your sister’s sentiments. He has heartily forgiven me
now.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth longed to observe that Mr. Bingley had been a most delightful
friend; so easily guided that his worth was invaluable; but she checked
herself. She remembered that he had yet to learn to be laughed at, and
it was rather too early to begin. In anticipating the happiness of
Bingley, which of course was to be inferior only to his own, he
continued the conversation till they reached the house. In the hall they
parted. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My dear Lizzy, where can you have been walking to?” was a question
which Elizabeth received from Jane as soon as she entered the room, and
from all the others when they sat down to table. She had only to say in
reply, that they had wandered about till she was beyond her own
knowledge. She coloured as she spoke; but neither that, nor anything
else, awakened a suspicion of the truth. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The evening passed quietly, unmarked by anything extraordinary. The
acknowledged lovers talked and laughed; the unacknowledged were silent.
Darcy was not of a disposition in which happiness overflows in mirth;
and Elizabeth, agitated and confused, rather _knew_ that she was happy
than _felt_ herself to be so; for, besides the immediate embarrassment,
there were other evils before her. She anticipated what would be felt in
the family when her situation became known: she was aware that no one
liked him but Jane; and even feared that with the others it was a
_dislike_ which not all his fortune and consequence might do away. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> At night she opened her heart to Jane. Though suspicion was very far
from Miss Bennet’s general habits, she was absolutely incredulous here. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You are joking, Lizzy. This cannot be! Engaged to Mr. Darcy! No, no,
you shall not deceive me: I know it to be impossible.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This is a wretched beginning, indeed! My sole dependence was on you;
and I am sure nobody else will believe me, if you do not. Yet, indeed, I
am in earnest. I speak nothing but the truth. He still loves me, and we
are engaged.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You know nothing of the matter. _That_ is all to be forgot. Perhaps I
did not always love him so well as I do now; but in such cases as these
a good memory is unpardonable. This is the last time I shall ever
remember it myself.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Good heaven! can it be really so? Yet now I must believe you,” cried
Jane. “My dear, dear Lizzy, I would, I do congratulate you; but are you
certain--forgive the question--are you quite certain that you can be
happy with him?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “There can be no doubt of that. It is settled between us already that we
are to be the happiest couple in the world. But are you pleased, Jane?
Shall you like to have such a brother?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Very, very much. Nothing could give either Bingley or myself more
delight. But we considered it, we talked of it as impossible. And do you
really love him quite well enough? Oh, Lizzy! do anything rather than
marry without affection. Are you quite sure that you feel what you ought
to do?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My dearest sister, now be, _be_ serious. I want to talk very seriously.
Let me know everything that I am to know without delay. Will you tell me
how long you have loved him?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It has been coming on so gradually, that I hardly know when it began;
but I believe I must date it from my first seeing his beautiful grounds
at Pemberley.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Another entreaty that she would be serious, however, produced the
desired effect; and she soon satisfied Jane by her solemn assurances of
attachment. When convinced on that article, Miss Bennet had nothing
further to wish. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Now I am quite happy,” said she, “for you will be as happy as myself. I
always had a value for him. Were it for nothing but his love of you, I
must always have esteemed him; but now, as Bingley’s friend and your
husband, there can be only Bingley and yourself more dear to me. But,
Lizzy, you have been very sly, very reserved with me. How little did you
tell me of what passed at Pemberley and Lambton! I owe all that I know
of it to another, not to you.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth told her the motives of her secrecy. She had been unwilling to
mention Bingley; and the unsettled state of her own feelings had made
her equally avoid the name of his friend: but now she would no longer
conceal from her his share in Lydia’s marriage. All was acknowledged,
and half the night spent in conversation. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Good gracious!” cried Mrs. Bennet, as she stood at a window the next
morning, “if that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with
our dear Bingley! What can he mean by being so tiresome as to be always
coming here? I had no notion but he would go a-shooting, or something or
other, and not disturb us with his company. What shall we do with him?
Lizzy, you must walk out with him again, that he may not be in Bingley’s
way.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth could hardly help laughing at so convenient a proposal; yet
was really vexed that her mother should be always giving him such an
epithet. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As soon as they entered, Bingley looked at her so expressively, and
shook hands with such warmth, as left no doubt of his good information;
and he soon afterwards said aloud, “Mrs. Bennet, have you no more lanes
hereabouts in which Lizzy may lose her way again to-day?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I advise Mr. Darcy, and Lizzy, and Kitty,” said Mrs. Bennet, “to walk
to Oakham Mount this morning. It is a nice long walk, and Mr. Darcy has
never seen the view.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “It may do very well for the others,” replied Mr. Bingley; “but I am
sure it will be too much for Kitty. Won’t it, Kitty?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Kitty owned that she had rather stay at home. Darcy professed a great
curiosity to see the view from the Mount, and Elizabeth silently
consented. As she went upstairs to get ready, Mrs. Bennet followed her,
saying,-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am quite sorry, Lizzy, that you should be forced to have that
disagreeable man all to yourself; but I hope you will not mind it. It is
all for Jane’s sake, you know; and there is no occasion for talking to
him except just now and then; so do not put yourself to inconvenience.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> During their walk, it was resolved that Mr. Bennet’s consent should be
asked in the course of the evening: Elizabeth reserved to herself the
application for her mother’s. She could not determine how her mother
would take it; sometimes doubting whether all his wealth and grandeur
would be enough to overcome her abhorrence of the man; but whether she
were violently set against the match, or violently delighted with it, it
was certain that her manner would be equally ill adapted to do credit to
her sense; and she could no more bear that Mr. Darcy should hear the
first raptures of her joy, than the first vehemence of her
disapprobation. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> In the evening, soon after Mr. Bennet withdrew to the library, she saw
Mr. Darcy rise also and follow him, and her agitation on seeing it was
extreme. She did not fear her father’s opposition, but he was going to
be made unhappy, and that it should be through her means; that _she_,
his favourite child, should be distressing him by her choice, should be
filling him with fears and regrets in disposing of her, was a wretched
reflection, and she sat in misery till Mr. Darcy appeared again, when,
looking at him, she was a little relieved by his smile. In a few minutes
he approached the table where she was sitting with Kitty; and, while
pretending to admire her work, said in a whisper, “Go to your father; he
wants you in the library.” She was gone directly. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Her father was walking about the room, looking grave and anxious.
“Lizzy,” said he, “what are you doing? Are you out of your senses to be
accepting this man? Have not you always hated him?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> How earnestly did she then wish that her former opinions had been more
reasonable, her expressions more moderate! It would have spared her from
explanations and professions which it was exceedingly awkward to give;
but they were now necessary, and she assured him, with some confusion,
of her attachment to Mr. Darcy. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Or, in other words, you are determined to have him. He is rich, to be
sure, and you may have more fine clothes and fine carriages than Jane.
But will they make you happy?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “None at all. We all know him to be a proud, unpleasant sort of man; but
this would be nothing if you really liked him.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I do, I do like him,” she replied, with tears in her eyes; “I love him.
Indeed he has no improper pride. He is perfectly amiable. You do not
know what he really is; then pray do not pain me by speaking of him in
such terms.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Lizzy,” said her father, “I have given him my consent. He is the kind
of man, indeed, to whom I should never dare refuse anything, which he
condescended to ask. I now give it to _you_, if you are resolved on
having him. But let me advise you to think better of it. I know your
disposition, Lizzy. I know that you could be neither happy nor
respectable, unless you truly esteemed your husband, unless you looked
up to him as a superior. Your lively talents would place you in the
greatest danger in an unequal marriage. You could scarcely escape
discredit and misery. My child, let me not have the grief of seeing
_you_ unable to respect your partner in life. You know not what you are
about.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth, still more affected, was earnest and solemn in her reply;
and, at length, by repeated assurances that Mr. Darcy was really the
object of her choice, by explaining the gradual change which her
estimation of him had undergone, relating her absolute certainty that
his affection was not the work of a day, but had stood the test of many
months’ suspense, and enumerating with energy all his good qualities,
she did conquer her father’s incredulity, and reconcile him to the
match. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Well, my dear,” said he, when she ceased speaking, “I have no more to
say. If this be the case, he deserves you. I could not have parted with
you, my Lizzy, to anyone less worthy.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> To complete the favourable impression, she then told him what Mr. Darcy
had voluntarily done for Lydia. He heard her with astonishment. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “This is an evening of wonders, indeed! And so, Darcy did everything;
made up the match, gave the money, paid the fellow’s debts, and got him
his commission! So much the better. It will save me a world of trouble
and economy. Had it been your uncle’s doing, I must and _would_ have
paid him; but these violent young lovers carry everything their own
way. I shall offer to pay him to-morrow, he will rant and storm about
his love for you, and there will be an end of the matter.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> He then recollected her embarrassment a few days before on his reading
Mr. Collins’s letter; and after laughing at her some time, allowed her
at last to go, saying, as she quitted the room, “If any young men come
for Mary or Kitty, send them in, for I am quite at leisure.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth’s mind was now relieved from a very heavy weight; and, after
half an hour’s quiet reflection in her own room, she was able to join
the others with tolerable composure. Everything was too recent for
gaiety, but the evening passed tranquilly away; there was no longer
anything material to be dreaded, and the comfort of ease and familiarity
would come in time. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> When her mother went up to her dressing-room at night, she followed her,
and made the important communication. Its effect was most extraordinary;
for, on first hearing it, Mrs. Bennet sat quite still, and unable to
utter a syllable. Nor was it under many, many minutes, that she could
comprehend what she heard, though not in general backward to credit what
was for the advantage of her family, or that came in the shape of a
lover to any of them. She began at length to recover, to fidget about in
her chair, get up, sit down again, wonder, and bless herself. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Good gracious! Lord bless me! only think! dear me! Mr. Darcy! Who would
have thought it? And is it really true? Oh, my sweetest Lizzy! how rich
and how great you will be! What pin-money, what jewels, what carriages
you will have! Jane’s is nothing to it--nothing at all. I am so
pleased--so happy. Such a charming man! so handsome! so tall! Oh, my
dear Lizzy! pray apologize for my having disliked him so much before. I
hope he will overlook it. Dear, dear Lizzy. A house in town! Everything
that is charming! Three daughters married! Ten thousand a year! Oh,
Lord! what will become of me? I shall go distracted.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This was enough to prove that her approbation need not be doubted; and
Elizabeth, rejoicing that such an effusion was heard only by herself,
soon went away. But before she had been three minutes in her own room,
her mother followed her. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My dearest child,” she cried, “I can think of nothing else. Ten
thousand a year, and very likely more! ’Tis as good as a lord! And a
special licence--you must and shall be married by a special licence.
But, my dearest love, tell me what dish Mr. Darcy is particularly fond
of, that I may have it to-morrow.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> This was a sad omen of what her mother’s behaviour to the gentleman
himself might be; and Elizabeth found that, though in the certain
possession of his warmest affection, and secure of her relations’
consent, there was still something to be wished for. But the morrow
passed off much better than she expected; for Mrs. Bennet luckily stood
in such awe of her intended son-in-law, that she ventured not to speak
to him, unless it was in her power to offer him any attention, or mark
her deference for his opinion. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth had the satisfaction of seeing her father taking pains to get
acquainted with him; and Mr. Bennet soon assured her that he was rising
every hour in his esteem. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I admire all my three sons-in-law highly,” said he. “Wickham, perhaps,
is my favourite; but I think I shall like _your_ husband quite as well
as Jane’s.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Elizabeth’s spirits soon rising to playfulness again, she wanted Mr.
Darcy to account for his having ever fallen in love with her. “How could
you begin?” said she. “I can comprehend your going on charmingly, when
you had once made a beginning; but what could set you off in the first
place?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I cannot fix on the hour, or the spot, or the look, or the words, which
laid the foundation. It is too long ago. I was in the middle before I
knew that I _had_ begun.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My beauty you had early withstood, and as for my manners--my behaviour
to _you_ was at least always bordering on the uncivil, and I never spoke
to you without rather wishing to give you pain than not. Now, be
sincere; did you admire me for my impertinence?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You may as well call it impertinence at once. It was very little less.
The fact is, that you were sick of civility, of deference, of officious
attention. You were disgusted with the women who were always speaking,
and looking, and thinking for _your_ approbation alone. I roused and
interested you, because I was so unlike _them_. Had you not been really
amiable you would have hated me for it: but in spite of the pains you
took to disguise yourself, your feelings were always noble and just; and
in your heart you thoroughly despised the persons who so assiduously
courted you. There--I have saved you the trouble of accounting for it;
and really, all things considered, I begin to think it perfectly
reasonable. To be sure you know no actual good of me--but nobody thinks
of _that_ when they fall in love.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Dearest Jane! who could have done less for her? But make a virtue of it
by all means. My good qualities are under your protection, and you are
to exaggerate them as much as possible; and, in return, it belongs to me
to find occasions for teasing and quarrelling with you as often as may
be; and I shall begin directly, by asking you what made you so unwilling
to come to the point at last? What made you so shy of me, when you
first called, and afterwards dined here? Why, especially, when you
called, did you look as if you did not care about me?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “How unlucky that you should have a reasonable answer to give, and that
I should be so reasonable as to admit it! But I wonder how long you
_would_ have gone on, if you had been left to yourself. I wonder when
you _would_ have spoken if I had not asked you! My resolution of
thanking you for your kindness to Lydia had certainly great effect. _Too
much_, I am afraid; for what becomes of the moral, if our comfort
springs from a breach of promise, for I ought not to have mentioned the
subject? This will never do.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “You need not distress yourself. The moral will be perfectly fair. Lady
Catherine’s unjustifiable endeavours to separate us were the means of
removing all my doubts. I am not indebted for my present happiness to
your eager desire of expressing your gratitude. I was not in a humour to
wait for an opening of yours. My aunt’s intelligence had given me hope,
and I was determined at once to know everything.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “Lady Catherine has been of infinite use, which ought to make her happy,
for she loves to be of use. But tell me, what did you come down to
Netherfield for? Was it merely to ride to Longbourn and be embarrassed?
or had you intended any more serious consequences?” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “My real purpose was to see _you_, and to judge, if I could, whether I
might ever hope to make you love me. My avowed one, or what I avowed to
myself, was to see whether your sister was still partial to Bingley, and
if she were, to make the confession to him which I have since made.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I am more likely to want time than courage, Elizabeth. But it ought to
be done; and if you will give me a sheet of paper it shall be done
directly.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “And if I had not a letter to write myself, I might sit by you, and
admire the evenness of your writing, as another young lady once did. But
I have an aunt, too, who must not be longer neglected.” </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> From an unwillingness to confess how much her intimacy with Mr. Darcy
had been overrated, Elizabeth had never yet answered Mrs. Gardiner’s
long letter; but now, having _that_ to communicate which she knew would
be most welcome, she was almost ashamed to find that her uncle and aunt
had already lost three days of happiness, and immediately wrote as
follows:-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I would have thanked you before, my dear aunt, as I ought to have done,
for your long, kind, satisfactory detail of particulars; but, to say the
truth, I was too cross to write. You supposed more than really existed.
But _now_ suppose as much as you choose; give a loose to your fancy,
indulge your imagination in every possible flight which the subject will
afford, and unless you believe me actually married, you cannot greatly
err. You must write again very soon, and praise him a great deal more
than you did in your last. I thank you again and again, for not going to
the Lakes. How could I be so silly as to wish it! Your idea of the
ponies is delightful. We will go round the park every day. I am the
happiest creature in the world. Perhaps other people have said so
before, but no one with such justice. I am happier even than Jane; she
only smiles, I laugh. Mr. Darcy sends you all the love in the world that
can be spared from me. You are all to come to Pemberley at Christmas.
Yours,” etc. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Darcy’s letter to Lady Catherine was in a different style, and still
different from either was what Mr. Bennet sent to Mr. Collins, in return
for his last. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I must trouble you once more for congratulations. Elizabeth will
     soon be the wife of Mr. Darcy. Console Lady Catherine as well as
     you can. But, if I were you, I would stand by the nephew. He has
     more to give. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Miss Bingley’s congratulations to her brother on his approaching
marriage were all that was affectionate and insincere. She wrote even to
Jane on the occasion, to express her delight, and repeat all her former
professions of regard. Jane was not deceived, but she was affected; and
though feeling no reliance on her, could not help writing her a much
kinder answer than she knew was deserved. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Continue the story in the same literary style: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> The joy which Miss Darcy expressed on receiving similar information was
as sincere as her brother’s in sending it. Four sides of paper were
insufficient to contain all her delight, and all her earnest desire of
being loved by her sister. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Before any answer could arrive from Mr. Collins, or any congratulations
to Elizabeth from his wife, the Longbourn family heard that the
Collinses were come themselves to Lucas Lodge. The reason of this
sudden removal was soon evident. Lady Catherine had been rendered so
exceedingly angry by the contents of her nephew’s letter, that
Charlotte, really rejoicing in the match, was anxious to get away till
the storm was blown over. At such a moment, the arrival of her friend
was a sincere pleasure to Elizabeth, though in the course of their
meetings she must sometimes think the pleasure dearly bought, when she
saw Mr. Darcy exposed to all the parading and obsequious civility of her
husband. He bore it, however, with admirable calmness. He could even
listen to Sir William Lucas, when he complimented him on carrying away
the brightest jewel of the country, and expressed his hopes of their all
meeting frequently at St. James’s, with very decent composure. If he did
shrug his shoulders, it was not till Sir William was out of sight. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mrs. Philips’s vulgarity was another, and, perhaps, a greater tax on his
forbearance; and though Mrs. Philips, as well as her sister, stood in
too much awe of him to speak with the familiarity which Bingley’s
good-humour encouraged; yet, whenever she _did_ speak, she must be
vulgar. Nor was her respect for him, though it made her more quiet, at
all likely to make her more elegant. Elizabeth did all she could to
shield him from the frequent notice of either, and was ever anxious to
keep him to herself, and to those of her family with whom he might
converse without mortification; and though the uncomfortable feelings
arising from all this took from the season of courtship much of its
pleasure, it added to the hope of the future; and she looked forward
with delight to the time when they should be removed from society so
little pleasing to either, to all the comfort and elegance of their
family party at Pemberley. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Happy for all her maternal feelings was the day on which Mrs. Bennet got
rid of her two most deserving daughters. With what delighted pride she
afterwards visited Mrs. Bingley, and talked of Mrs. Darcy, may be
guessed. I wish I could say, for the sake of her family, that the
accomplishment of her earnest desire in the establishment of so many of
her children produced so happy an effect as to make her a sensible,
amiable, well-informed woman for the rest of her life; though, perhaps,
it was lucky for her husband, who might not have relished domestic
felicity in so unusual a form, that she still was occasionally nervous
and invariably silly. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Bennet missed his second daughter exceedingly; his affection for her
drew him oftener from home than anything else could do. He delighted in
going to Pemberley, especially when he was least expected. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mr. Bingley and Jane remained at Netherfield only a twelvemonth. So near
a vicinity to her mother and Meryton relations was not desirable even to
_his_ easy temper, or _her_ affectionate heart. The darling wish of his
sisters was then gratified: he bought an estate in a neighbouring county
to Derbyshire; and Jane and Elizabeth, in addition to every other source
of happiness, were within thirty miles of each other. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Kitty, to her very material advantage, spent the chief of her time with
her two elder sisters. In society so superior to what she had generally
known, her improvement was great. She was not of so ungovernable a
temper as Lydia; and, removed from the influence of Lydia’s example, she
became, by proper attention and management, less irritable, less
ignorant, and less insipid. From the further disadvantage of Lydia’s
society she was of course carefully kept; and though Mrs. Wickham
frequently invited her to come and stay with her, with the promise of
balls and young men, her father would never consent to her going. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Mary was the only daughter who remained at home; and she was necessarily
drawn from the pursuit of accomplishments by Mrs. Bennet’s being quite
unable to sit alone. Mary was obliged to mix more with the world, but
she could still moralize over every morning visit; and as she was no
longer mortified by comparisons between her sisters’ beauty and her own,
it was suspected by her father that she submitted to the change without
much reluctance. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As for Wickham and Lydia, their characters suffered no revolution from
the marriage of her sisters. He bore with philosophy the conviction that
Elizabeth must now become acquainted with whatever of his ingratitude
and falsehood had before been unknown to her; and, in spite of
everything, was not wholly without hope that Darcy might yet be
prevailed on to make his fortune. The congratulatory letter which
Elizabeth received from Lydia on her marriage explained to her that, by
his wife at least, if not by himself, such a hope was cherished. The
letter was to this effect:-- </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> “I wish you joy. If you love Mr. Darcy half so well as I do my dear
     Wickham, you must be very happy. It is a great comfort to have you
     so rich; and when you have nothing else to do, I hope you will
     think of us. I am sure Wickham would like a place at court very
     much; and I do not think we shall have quite money enough to live
     upon without some help. Any place would do of about three or four
     hundred a year; but, however, do not speak to Mr. Darcy about it,
     if you had rather not. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> As it happened that Elizabeth had much rather not, she endeavoured in
her answer to put an end to every entreaty and expectation of the kind.
Such relief, however, as it was in her power to afford, by the practice
of what might be called economy in her own private expenses, she
frequently sent them. It had always been evident to her that such an
income as theirs, under the direction of two persons so extravagant in
their wants, and heedless of the future, must be very insufficient to
their support; and whenever they changed their quarters, either Jane or
herself were sure of being applied to for some little assistance towards
discharging their bills. Their manner of living, even when the
restoration of peace dismissed them to a home, was unsettled in the
extreme. They were always moving from place to place in quest of a
cheap situation, and always spending more than they ought. His affection
for her soon sunk into indifference: hers lasted a little longer; and,
in spite of her youth and her manners, she retained all the claims to
reputation which her marriage had given her. Though Darcy could never
receive _him_ at Pemberley, yet, for Elizabeth’s sake, he assisted him
further in his profession. Lydia was occasionally a visitor there, when
her husband was gone to enjoy himself in London or Bath; and with the
Bingleys they both of them frequently stayed so long, that even
Bingley’s good-humour was overcome, and he proceeded so far as to _talk_
of giving them a hint to be gone. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Miss Bingley was very deeply mortified by Darcy’s marriage; but as she
thought it advisable to retain the right of visiting at Pemberley, she
dropped all her resentment; was fonder than ever of Georgiana, almost as
attentive to Darcy as heretofore, and paid off every arrear of civility
to Elizabeth. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Explain what is happening in this scene: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Pemberley was now Georgiana’s home; and the attachment of the sisters
was exactly what Darcy had hoped to see. They were able to love each
other, even as well as they intended. Georgiana had the highest opinion
in the world of Elizabeth; though at first she often listened with an
astonishment bordering on alarm at her lively, sportive manner of
talking to her brother. He, who had always inspired in herself a respect
which almost overcame her affection, she now saw the object of open
pleasantry. Her mind received knowledge which had never before fallen in
her way. By Elizabeth’s instructions she began to comprehend that a
woman may take liberties with her husband, which a brother will not
always allow in a sister more than ten years younger than himself. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Summarize this passage from a classic novel: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> Lady Catherine was extremely indignant on the marriage of her nephew;
and as she gave way to all the genuine frankness of her character, in
her reply to the letter which announced its arrangement, she sent him
language so very abusive, especially of Elizabeth, that for some time
all intercourse was at an end. But at length, by Elizabeth’s persuasion,
he was prevailed on to overlook the offence, and seek a reconciliation;
and, after a little further resistance on the part of his aunt, her
resentment gave way, either to her affection for him, or her curiosity
to see how his wife conducted herself; and she condescended to wait on
them at Pemberley, in spite of that pollution which its woods had
received, not merely from the presence of such a mistress, but the
visits of her uncle and aunt from the city. </RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>
<INSTRUCTION> Analyze the tone of this text: </INSTRUCTION><RESPONSE> With the Gardiners they were always on the most intimate terms. Darcy,
as well as Elizabeth, really loved them; and they were both ever
sensible of the warmest gratitude towards the persons who, by bringing
her into Derbyshire, had been the means of uniting them.
</RESPONSE> <|endoftext|>